::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240812

question: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) J sword: not just weapon, spirit <br>(2) Master smith: skilled<br>-how to make<br>-artistic merit + history<br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Japanese sword is a weapon <i>and</i> a work of art, important to both samurai and smith. The smiths were basically artists.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The <i>in order</i> to language indicates that this is a Specific Purpose (Why) question. Paragraph 2 explains how the swords were made; why did the author include this information? The beginning and the end of the paragraph are where you can find support. First, the author says that smiths may not have been considered artists <i>in the classical sense</i>, foreshadowing the idea that perhaps they could still be considered artists. The end of the passage indicates that the forging process resulted in such a distinctive blade that the sword is now recognized for its artistic merit as well as its historical significance. Predict an answer (likely something about artistry or artistic merit), and then work through the answers using the process of elimination.<br><br>(A) The passage does call the Japanese sword one of the finest cutting weapons ever produced, but this is not quite as strong as calling it the most important handheld weapon in history. In any case, this is not the author's purpose in describing how the sword was made. <br><br>(B) The passage claims that the smith's secret forging techniques, not the skill of the samurai, made a blade unique. <br><br><b>(C) CORRECT.</b> The default definition for the smiths is craftspeople, but the detailed information about the forging process, as well as the opening and closing sentences, indicate that the smiths might be considered artists as well. <br><br>(D) The passage discusses both the artistic merits and the practical qualities of the swords, but the passage does not indicate whether the smiths thought one was more important than the other. <br><br>(E) The last sentence does talk about both of these concepts, but it does not indicate that one is more important than the other."

answers: [
  "establish that the Japanese sword is the most important handheld weapon in history",
  "claim that the skill of the samurai is what made each Japanese sword unique",
  "support the contention that the master smiths might be considered artists as well as craftspeople",
  "illustrate that master smiths were more concerned with the artistic merit of their blades than with the blades' practical qualities",
  "demonstrate that the Japanese sword has more historical importance than artistic importance"
]

explanation: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) J sword: not just weapon, spirit <br>(2) Master smith: skilled<br>-how to make<br>-artistic merit + history<br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Japanese sword is a weapon <i>and</i> a work of art, important to both samurai and smith. The smiths were basically artists.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The <i>in order</i> to language indicates that this is a Specific Purpose (Why) question. Paragraph 2 explains how the swords were made; why did the author include this information? The beginning and the end of the paragraph are where you can find support. First, the author says that smiths may not have been considered artists <i>in the classical sense</i>, foreshadowing the idea that perhaps they could still be considered artists. The end of the passage indicates that the forging process resulted in such a distinctive blade that the sword is now recognized for its artistic merit as well as its historical significance. Predict an answer (likely something about artistry or artistic merit), and then work through the answers using the process of elimination.<br><br>(A) The passage does call the Japanese sword one of the finest cutting weapons ever produced, but this is not quite as strong as calling it the most important handheld weapon in history. In any case, this is not the author's purpose in describing how the sword was made. <br><br>(B) The passage claims that the smith's secret forging techniques, not the skill of the samurai, made a blade unique. <br><br><b>(C) CORRECT.</b> The default definition for the smiths is craftspeople, but the detailed information about the forging process, as well as the opening and closing sentences, indicate that the smiths might be considered artists as well. <br><br>(D) The passage discusses both the artistic merits and the practical qualities of the swords, but the passage does not indicate whether the smiths thought one was more important than the other. <br><br>(E) The last sentence does talk about both of these concepts, but it does not indicate that one is more important than the other."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::