::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240627

question: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) VZ = inventor<br>—S = father of TV<br>— really F<br>(2) F not part of process, focus edu<br>— S made comm (same as radio)<br>(3) S just adapt? or visionary?<br>— Some see S neg, some pos<br><br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Farnsworth really invented TV, but he didn't know how to turn it into a business. Sarnoff used the radio model to make television big business. People have differing feelings about his role.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The word <i>suggests</i> signals that this is an Inference question, so you will need to go back to the passage. Farnsworth's contributions are discussed in the second paragraph: <br><br><i>[Farnsworth] was excluded from the process of introducing the invention to a national audience... Farnsworth thought the television should be used as an educational tool, but he had little understanding of the business world, and was never able to implement his ideas.</i><br><br>If Farnsworth hadn't been excluded, maybe he would have earned more acclaim. Alternatively, if he had understood business better, then he might have earned more acclaim. Look for an answer with a similar meaning.<br><br>(A) The passage says that Sarnoff, not Zworykin himself, was vocal about Zworykin's contributions. <br><br>(B) It's possible that if Farnsworth had been able to follow through on his goal of using television for education, he would have earned public acclaim, but the passage says nothing to indicate this. <br><br>(C) There is no indication that Farnsworth had any such plans. Rather, it would have helped Farnsworth to be involved with Sarnoff's plans. <br><br><b>(D) CORRECT.</b> If Farnsworth hadn't been excluded, then he might have garnered acclaim as Sarnoff and Zworykin did.<br><br>(E) The passage indicates that Farnsworth had little understanding of the business world; even if he knew what audiences wanted to watch, he wouldn't necessarily have known how to build a successful business model."

answers: [
  "Vladimir Zworykin had been less vocal about his own contributions to the television",
  "Farnsworth had been able to develop and air his own educational programs",
  "Farnsworth had involved Sarnoff in his plans to develop, manufacture, or distribute the television",
  "Sarnoff had involved Farnsworth in his plans to develop, manufacture, or distribute the television",
  "Farnsworth had conducted research into the type of programming the audience most wanted to watch"
]

explanation: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) VZ = inventor<br>—S = father of TV<br>— really F<br>(2) F not part of process, focus edu<br>— S made comm (same as radio)<br>(3) S just adapt? or visionary?<br>— Some see S neg, some pos<br><br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Farnsworth really invented TV, but he didn't know how to turn it into a business. Sarnoff used the radio model to make television big business. People have differing feelings about his role.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The word <i>suggests</i> signals that this is an Inference question, so you will need to go back to the passage. Farnsworth's contributions are discussed in the second paragraph: <br><br><i>[Farnsworth] was excluded from the process of introducing the invention to a national audience... Farnsworth thought the television should be used as an educational tool, but he had little understanding of the business world, and was never able to implement his ideas.</i><br><br>If Farnsworth hadn't been excluded, maybe he would have earned more acclaim. Alternatively, if he had understood business better, then he might have earned more acclaim. Look for an answer with a similar meaning.<br><br>(A) The passage says that Sarnoff, not Zworykin himself, was vocal about Zworykin's contributions. <br><br>(B) It's possible that if Farnsworth had been able to follow through on his goal of using television for education, he would have earned public acclaim, but the passage says nothing to indicate this. <br><br>(C) There is no indication that Farnsworth had any such plans. Rather, it would have helped Farnsworth to be involved with Sarnoff's plans. <br><br><b>(D) CORRECT.</b> If Farnsworth hadn't been excluded, then he might have garnered acclaim as Sarnoff and Zworykin did.<br><br>(E) The passage indicates that Farnsworth had little understanding of the business world; even if he knew what audiences wanted to watch, he wouldn't necessarily have known how to build a successful business model."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0
]



---
::