::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20231014

question: "<p>An economic recession can result from <u>a lowering of employment rates triggered by a drop in investment, which causes consumers to cut spending and start a cycle of layoffs leading to even lower employment rates</u>.</p>An economic recession can result from <u>a lowering of employment rates triggered by a drop in investment, which causes consumers to cut spending and start a cycle of layoffs leading to even lower employment rates</u>."

answers: [
  "a lowering of employment rates triggered by a drop in investment, which causes consumers to cut spending and start a cycle of layoffs leading to even lower employment rates",
  "a lowering of employment rates triggered by dropping investment, causing consumers to cut spending and start a cycle of layoffs leading to even lower employment rates",
  "falling employment rates triggered by a drop in investment, causing cutbacks in consumer spending and starting a cycle of layoffs that lead to even lower employment rates",
  "falling employment rates that are triggered by a drop in investment, causing people to cut consumer spending and start a cycle of layoffs that lead to even lower employment rates",
  "falling employment rates that are triggered by a drop in investment, cause cutbacks in consumer spending, and start a cycle of layoffs leading to even lower employment rates"
]

explanation: "<i>First Glance:</i> The choices switch between <i>a lowering of</i> and <i>falling</i>, so it's possible that there is a parallelism or idiom issue or that the sentence is testing meaning.<i>Read the Sentence and Choose a Starting Point:</i> The original sentence has one definite error (<i>cause consumers to ... start a cycle of layoffs</i>) as well as a borderline error (<i>which causes ...</i>).<i>Issue #1:</i> Parallelism/Meaning. The original sentence says that a certain series of events will <i>cause consumers to ... start a cycle of layoffs</i>. But consumers don't lay employees off; companies do. A more logical meaning would be that the recession will cause both things—consumers to cut spending and companies to cut employees. Answer (B) repeats this error; eliminate (A) and (B) for an illogical meaning.Answer (D) changes the structure a bit but the new format is still problematic. Now, the recession is <i>causing people to cut consumer spending and start a cycle of layoffs</i>. Are the <i>people</i> in question the consumers? If so, then the first half makes sense (they <i>cut consumer spending</i>) but not the second half (they don't lay people off). Or are the <i>people</i> in question the employers? If so, the first half doesn't make sense; employers don't cut consumer spending. Companies want people to buy stuff! Eliminate (D) for the same illogical meaning as in (A) and (B).<i>Issue #2:</i> Modifiers. The comma–which construction in the original sentence is not great. A comma–which modifier refers to a noun or noun phrase, while a comma –ing structure refers to a more complex action. In this sentence, consumers cut spending and employers lay people off due to the overall series of events that occur: a recession triggered by certain other events. It's possible to argue that the comma–which modifier refers just to the phrase <i>a lowering of rates triggered by a drop in investment</i>. But check the other choices to see whether a comma –ing option exists; that may be the better choice. The other options all remove the comma –which structure, so be skeptical about answer (A).Issue #3: Parallelism/Meaning (again!). Compare the two remaining answers, (C) and (E). Answer (C) changes to a comma –ing structure, which is appropriate for this sentence. Choice (E) changes entirely to an <i>X, Y, and Z</i> list structure—and this leads to yet another Meaning error:<br>(E) <i>falling employment rates that are (X) triggered by a drop in investment, (Y) cause cutbacks in consumer spending, and (Z) start a cycle of layoffs leading to even lower employment rates</i>The sentence now says that the initial <i>falling employment rates</i> by themselves <i>start a cycle of layoffs</i>. This isn't logical. Just <i>falling employment rates</i> by themselves, without any other consequence, wouldn't cause companies to lay off even more people. Rather, the overall <i>recession</i> or perhaps the <i>cutbacks in consumer spending</i> are causing companies to continue to lay people off.The correct answer, (C), fixes the original two errors. By changing to a comma –ing modifier structure, the sentence now says that the overall recession, caused by falling employment rates, can in turn cause both cutbacks in consumer spending and a cycle of layoffs.Note: The opening difference (<i>a lowering of</i> vs. <i>falling</i>) is a red herring; both forms are acceptable. The test writers are just hoping they'll get you to waste time debating something that doesn't matter."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::