::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20231022

question: "<p>Though margarine was introduced as a supposedly healthful alternative to butter, recent studies suggest <u>it is as harmful or</u> worse than butter.</p>Though margarine was introduced as a supposedly healthful alternative to butter, recent studies suggest <u>it is as harmful or</u> worse than butter."

answers: [
  "it is as harmful or",
  "that it is just as harmful or even",
  "that it is as harmful as if not",
  "it to be just as harmful as or",
  "that it is as harmful if not"
]

explanation: "<i>First Glance:</i> The underline is pretty short; when they don't give you much to work with, it's often the case that you are facing a tricky problem.<i>Read the Sentence and Choose a Starting Point:</i> The original sentence makes a comparison between margarine and butter, but it messes up the comparison structure. One thing is <i>as harmful as</i> another. One thing is <i>worse than</i> another. When you want to combine the two comparison structures into one bigger structure, you have to use the full comparison structure for each: One thing is <i>as harmful as</i> or <i>worse than</i> the other.<i>Issue #1:</i> Comparison. The original sentence is missing the second as in the comparison structure <i>as harmful as</i>. Answers (B) and (E) repeat this error. Eliminate choices (A), (B), and (E) for a faulty comparison structure.<i>Issue #2:</i> Idiom / Word Choice. <i>Studies suggest that</i> something <i>is</i> (or <i>was</i> or <i>will be</i>) a certain way. Don't say that <i>studies suggest that</i> something <i>to be</i> a certain way.The correct answer, (C), fixes the original error by adding the second instance of the word <i>as</i> to the comparison: <i>as harmful as</i>. This choice also uses the correct idiom <i>studies suggest that it is</i>.Note: The structure <i>as harmful as or worse than</i> is acceptable, as is the structure <i>as harmful as if not worse than</i>. They mean the same thing. Some answer choices include the words <i>just</i> or <i>even</i>; these are not incorrect, though they are also not necessary to include. These are red herrings; the test writers are hoping to get you to waste time debating between differences that are all acceptable."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::