::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240327

question: "<p>For the first time in history, more televisions than people can be found in US households. According to recent research, the average household has 2.55 residents and contains 2.73 televisions. However, by employing such costly manufacturing processes as plasma technology and flat screens, televisions are becoming more expensive. In the near future, the average number of residents per household will again surpass the number of televisions.</p><p>Which of the following, if true, most strongly supports the argument above?</p>For the first time in history, more televisions than people can be found in US households. According to recent research, the average household has 2.55 residents and contains 2.73 televisions. However, by employing such costly manufacturing processes as plasma technology and flat screens, televisions are becoming more expensive. In the near future, the average number of residents per household will again surpass the number of televisions.Which of the following, if true, most strongly supports the argument above?"

answers: [
  "House parties at which numerous individuals gather to view popular television shows on one television set have increased three hundred percent during the past year.",
  "More than one million legal immigrants enter the United States each year.",
  "Devices such as tablets are increasingly purchased for use as a primary source of information and entertainment.",
  "As new technologies become more commonplace, manufacturing and retail costs normally decline.",
  "As a result of technological advances, new televisions are increasingly enabled with certain features, such as Internet browsing, that are traditionally associated with other household devices."
]

explanation: "<i>Identify the Question Stem:</i> The language <i>most strongly supports the argument</i> indicates that this is a Strengthen the Conclusion question.<i>Deconstruct the Argument:</i> TVs outnumber people in the US! But newer TVs are becoming too expensive, so (the author claims), the trend will reverse itself soon and the US will go back to having more people than TVs.<i>Pause and State the Goal:</i> On Strengthen questions, your goal is to find something that makes the author's conclusion at least somewhat more likely to be valid. In this case, the author concludes that the trend will reverse itself because TVs are becoming more expensive.<i>Work from Wrong to Right:</i><br>(A) This choice doesn't address buying habits. It could still be the case that people will buy more TVs or it might be that they won't.<br>(B) The argument doesn't claim anything about the total number of TVs purchased, just that the <i>proportion</i>—the number of TVs vs. the number of residents per household—will decline. Even if people are immigrating to the US, that doesn't indicate anything about the proportion of TVs per household vs. residents per household.<br><b>(C) CORRECT.</b> If more people are using non-TV devices, such as tablets, as their <i>primary source</i> of information and entertainment, then it is at least somewhat more likely that the author's conclusion is valid and that the number of TVs per household will again drop below the number of residents per household.<br>(D) If the cost of TVs declines over time, then the author's argument is weakened, not strengthened.<br>(E) If anything, this weakens the argument. If TVs are gaining functionality that people currently use in other devices, then maybe they'll be willing to pay more for TVs that have the combined functionality—and then they could avoid buying that other, separate device.The correct answer is (C)."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::