::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240701

question: "This question draws on your Critical Reasoning skills—your ability to analyze an argument. <br><br>First, you are asked for a statement that would weaken the second sentence in the argument. The second sentence reads \"However, to my knowledge every living nose-tailed mongoose is striped.\" What would weaken this claim?: Evidence that there are (or may be) some living nose-tailed mongoose who are <i>not</i> striped.   <br><br>The only answer choice that fits this model is the third one: \"Two of the nose-tailed mongooses living in the Brooklyn Zoo are solid grey in color.\"  <br><br>As for the second column, you're looking for a necessary assumption for the argument—that is, an assumption that you must make in order to draw a valid conclusion. The conclusion of the argument is the final sentence: \"Therefore, the mongooses living in the New Delhi Zoo are striped.\" There is a  gap in this argument between \"nose-tailed mongooses\" in the second sentence and \"mongooses\" in the conclusion (it's possible that the mongooses in New Delhi aren't nose-tailed). A correct answer will close that gap, stating that all the mongooses in the New Delhi zoo are nose-tailed. The fourth choice does just that: \"there is no mongoose living in the New Delhi Zoo that is not nose-tailed\" (i.e., they are all nose-tailed). Framing the assumption in the negative is a common feature of correct answers for assumption questions. <br><br>First column: The correct answer is (C).<br>Second column: The correct answer is (D)."

answers: [
  "More than one living mongoose is nose-tailed.",
  "Not all striped living mongooses are nose-tailed.",
  "Two of the nose-tailed mongooses living in the Brooklyn Zoo are solid grey in color.",
  "There is no mongoose living in the New Delhi Zoo that is not nose-tailed.",
  "Not every striped mongoose living in the New Delhi Zoo is nose-tailed.",
  "Some mongooses living in the New Delhi Zoo are neither striped nor nose-tailed."
]

explanation: "This question draws on your Critical Reasoning skills—your ability to analyze an argument. <br><br>First, you are asked for a statement that would weaken the second sentence in the argument. The second sentence reads \"However, to my knowledge every living nose-tailed mongoose is striped.\" What would weaken this claim?: Evidence that there are (or may be) some living nose-tailed mongoose who are <i>not</i> striped. <br><br>The only answer choice that fits this model is the third one: \"Two of the nose-tailed mongooses living in the Brooklyn Zoo are solid grey in color.\"  <br><br>As for the second column, you're looking for a necessary assumption for the argument—that is, an assumption that you must make in order to draw a valid conclusion. The conclusion of the argument is the final sentence: \"Therefore, the mongooses living in the New Delhi Zoo are striped.\" There is a  gap in this argument between \"nose-tailed mongooses\" in the second sentence and \"mongooses\" in the conclusion (it's possible that the mongooses in New Delhi aren't nose-tailed). A correct answer will close that gap, stating that all the mongooses in the New Delhi zoo are nose-tailed. The fourth choice does just that: \"there is no mongoose living in the New Delhi Zoo that is not nose-tailed\" (i.e., they are all nose-tailed). Framing the assumption in the negative is a common feature of correct answers for assumption questions.   <br><br>First column: The correct answer is (C).<br>Second column: The correct answer is (D)."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  0
]

---
::