::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240611

question: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) J sword: not just weapon, spirit <br>(2) Master smith: skilled<br>-how to make<br>-artistic merit + history<br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Japanese sword is a weapon <i>and</i> a work of art, important to both samurai and smith. The smiths were basically artists.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The wording <i>primary purpose</i> indicates that this is a Primary Purpose, or Main Idea, question. Glance at your map to find the support and try to predict the answer. Finally, go to the answers to find a match.<br><br>(A) The passage does not challenge the idea that historians admired the swords; the entire passage reflects great admiration for the swords and their makers. <br><br>(B) The second paragraph does talk about how swords are forged, but does not present this information as new. Moreover, information about the forging process is only one part of the passage; it is not the overall point of the passage. <br><br>(C) An obsolete weapon would no longer exist today; the passage does not indicate that Japanese swords are no longer used or no longer produced. <br><br>(D) The passage does indicate that the swords were a reflection of the master smith's personal honor, but this is a narrow detail; it is not the point of the entire passage.<br><br><b>(E) CORRECT.</b> The passage does explain the value of the sword to the samurai (in the first paragraph) and to the master smith (in the second paragraph)."

answers: [
  "challenge the observation that the Japanese sword is highly admired by historians",
  "introduce new information about the forging of Japanese swords",
  "discuss an obsolete weapon of great historical significance",
  "argue that Japanese sword makers were motivated by honor",
  "explain the value attributed to the Japanese sword"
]

explanation: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) J sword: not just weapon, spirit <br>(2) Master smith: skilled<br>-how to make<br>-artistic merit + history<br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Japanese sword is a weapon <i>and</i> a work of art, important to both samurai and smith. The smiths were basically artists.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The wording <i>primary purpose</i> indicates that this is a Primary Purpose, or Main Idea, question. Glance at your map to find the support and try to predict the answer. Finally, go to the answers to find a match.<br><br>(A) The passage does not challenge the idea that historians admired the swords; the entire passage reflects great admiration for the swords and their makers. <br><br>(B) The second paragraph does talk about how swords are forged, but does not present this information as new. Moreover, information about the forging process is only one part of the passage; it is not the overall point of the passage. <br><br>(C) An obsolete weapon would no longer exist today; the passage does not indicate that Japanese swords are no longer used or no longer produced. <br><br>(D) The passage does indicate that the swords were a reflection of the master smith's personal honor, but this is a narrow detail; it is not the point of the entire passage.<br><br><b>(E) CORRECT.</b> The passage does explain the value of the sword to the samurai (in the first paragraph) and to the master smith (in the second paragraph)."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  1
]



---
::