::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240316

question: "<p><b>The fight against the drug trade in Country Y should focus for the time being on tightening the country's borders and targeting its major smugglers.</b> Wiping out poppy fields, which are sometimes harvested to make opium, in rural areas means even greater hardship for an economically depressed farming population. <b>Rather, the United Nations and the government of Country Y must carefully rebuild agricultural infrastructure in areas where the economy depends on these poppy fields.</b></p><p>What purpose do the two boldface sentences serve in the passage?</p><b>The fight against the drug trade in Country Y should focus for the time being on tightening the country's borders and targeting its major smugglers.</b> Wiping out poppy fields, which are sometimes harvested to make opium, in rural areas means even greater hardship for an economically depressed farming population. <b>Rather, the United Nations and the government of Country Y must carefully rebuild agricultural infrastructure in areas where the economy depends on these poppy fields.</b>What purpose do the two boldface sentences serve in the passage?"

answers: [
  "The first is the conclusion drawn by the speaker; the second is the alternative to that conclusion.",
  "The first is a short-term solution to a problem; the second is a long-term solution to the same problem.",
  "The first presents a problem; the second poses an ideal solution to the problem.",
  "The first presents a popular solution to a problem; the second presents a solution preferred by the author.",
  "The first presents an argument; the second presents evidence to support the argument."
]

explanation: "<i>Identify the Question Stem:</i> The boldface font signals that this is a Describe the Role question.<i>Deconstruct the Argument:</i> The first sentence (and first boldface) is a claim: The author thinks that Country Y <i>should focus on</i> two particular goals <i>for the time being</i>. The second sentence indicates that getting rid of a certain crop that is involved in the drug trade would cause hardship for farmers who are struggling economically. The third sentence (and second boldface) is another claim: The author thinks that Country Y and the UN need to <i>rebuild</i> the entire <i>agricultural infrastructure</i>, presumably so that the economically-depressed farmers will still have a way to earn a living.<i>Pause and State the Goal:</i> On boldface questions, your goal is to understand the role that the boldface statements play in the broader argument. The first boldface is a shorter-term or temporary approach to try to address a difficult problem. The second boldface is a more comprehensive approach, but one that will take much longer to implement.<i>Work from Wrong to Right:</i><br>(A) The first boldface is a claim, which could be considered a conclusion, but the second boldface is not an alternative conclusion. Rather, the two boldfaces are two proposed solutions (one shorter-term and one longer-term) for the same problem.<br><b>(B) CORRECT.</b> The first boldface is a short-term solution suggested for a particular problem. The second boldface does present a longer-term solution for that same problem.<br>(C) The first boldface does mention a problem (<i>the drug trade</i>) but its purpose goes beyond that: It presents a shorter-term approach to try to manage the particular problem. (The sentence that is not in bold does present a specific problem.) The second boldface does propose a solution to the problem (though it's not clear that it can be described as the <i>ideal</i> solution.)<br>(D) It's true that both boldfaces present solutions to a problem, but there is no indication as to the popularity of either solution. Further, the author of the argument is putting forth both solutions, the first as a more short-term solution and the second as a longer-term solution. The author appears to be recommending that both proposed solutions be followed.<br>(E) The first boldface is a claim, which could be considered an argument, but the second boldface is not evidence to support that claim. Rather, the second boldface is a separate, longer-term proposed solution to the problem.The correct answer is (B)."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::