::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240709

question: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) new disc → undermine old beliefs<br>-child fossil → new theories<br>(2) 2 things changed w/child<br>-walking / limbs<br>-speech / hyoid<br><br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): New discoveries change old ideas and give rise to new theories. A detailed archaeological example illustrates this overall point. The discovery of a particular skeleton led researchers to reexamine theories about early human life.<br><br>Identify the question type. The phrase <i>in order to</i> indicates that this is a Specific Purpose (Why) question. Return to the passage to find support, paying attention to what comes just before and after the referenced quotation. Alemseged says the find is <i>unprecedented</i>, and the passage goes on to say:  <br><br><i>Other scientists said that the discovery could reshape conceptions about the lives and capacities of these early humans.</i><br><br>The author is using the discovery of this particular set of fossils to support the idea that discoveries can give rise to new theories. Alemseged says that the discovery is of something not seen before (<i>unprecedented</i>), and the other scientists explain why that's important—because it could give rise to new ideas. <br><br>(A) To qualify a claim is to limit or diminish it. Alemseged's quote does the opposite: It reinforces the point. <br><br>(B) Alemseged's quote emphasizes the importance of the discovery. The other scientists mentioned expound on this perspective.<br><br>(C) Linguistic abilities are mentioned at the end of the second paragraph, but Alemseged's quote is about the general significance of the find; it doesn't provide any support for a particular theory.<br><br><b>(D) CORRECT.</b> This choice matches the answer predicted above.<br><br>(E) Alemseged's opinion is reinforced, not refuted, by the second paragraph, which delves into the important consequences of the discovery."

answers: [
  "qualify the main idea of the first paragraph",
  "provide contrast to the claims of other scientists",
  "support the theory regarding the linguistic abilities of the afarensis species",
  "support the stated significance of the discovery",
  "provide a subjective opinion that is refuted in the second paragraph"
]

explanation: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) new disc → undermine old beliefs<br>-child fossil → new theories<br>(2) 2 things changed w/child<br>-walking / limbs<br>-speech / hyoid<br><br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): New discoveries change old ideas and give rise to new theories. A detailed archaeological example illustrates this overall point. The discovery of a particular skeleton led researchers to reexamine theories about early human life.<br><br>Identify the question type. The phrase <i>in order to</i> indicates that this is a Specific Purpose (Why) question. Return to the passage to find support, paying attention to what comes just before and after the referenced quotation. Alemseged says the find is <i>unprecedented</i>, and the passage goes on to say:  <br><br><i>Other scientists said that the discovery could reshape conceptions about the lives and capacities of these early humans.</i><br><br>The author is using the discovery of this particular set of fossils to support the idea that discoveries can give rise to new theories. Alemseged says that the discovery is of something not seen before (<i>unprecedented</i>), and the other scientists explain why that's important—because it could give rise to new ideas. <br><br>(A) To qualify a claim is to limit or diminish it. Alemseged's quote does the opposite: It reinforces the point. <br><br>(B) Alemseged's quote emphasizes the importance of the discovery. The other scientists mentioned expound on this perspective.<br><br>(C) Linguistic abilities are mentioned at the end of the second paragraph, but Alemseged's quote is about the general significance of the find; it doesn't provide any support for a particular theory.<br><br><b>(D) CORRECT.</b> This choice matches the answer predicted above.<br><br>(E) Alemseged's opinion is reinforced, not refuted, by the second paragraph, which delves into the important consequences of the discovery."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0
]



---
::