::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240314

question: "Carbon monoxide levels in the atmosphere grew by enough of an increased percentage during the twentieth century that more heat radiating from the Earth began to be trapped, and it caused the average surface temperature of the planet to rise."

answers: [
  "Carbon monoxide levels in the atmosphere grew by enough of an increased percentage during the twentieth century that more heat radiating from the Earth began to be trapped, and it caused the average surface temperature of the planet to rise.",
  "Carbon monoxide levels in the atmosphere grew by enough of an increased percentage during the twentieth century to increase the amount of heat trapped radiating from the Earth, causing the average surface temperature of the planet to rise.",
  "Levels of atmospheric carbon monoxide increased sufficiently during the twentieth century to cause more heat radiating from the Earth to be trapped, resulting in an increase in the planet's average surface temperature.",
  "Atmospheric carbon monoxide levels increased by a sufficient percentage during the twentieth century to trap more heat radiating from the Earth, which caused the planet's average surface temperature to rise.",
  "Levels of carbon monoxide in the atmosphere during the twentieth century increased enough to trap more heat radiating from the Earth, resulting in an increase in the planet's average surface temperature."
]

explanation: "<i>First Glance:</i> The entire sentence is underlined, so keep an eye out for global issues with sentence structure, meaning, modifiers, and parallelism.<i>Read the Sentence and Choose a Starting Point:</i> The first part of the original sentence indicates that <i>carbon monoxide levels</i> changed <i>enough ... that</i> something else happened as a result. Specifically the <i>levels</i> increased <i>enough that more heat</i> was trapped on Earth. And all of that caused another event to occur: The <i>average surface temperature of the planet</i> then increased.The original sentence has two issues, either of which is a great starting point: (1) the construction <i>levels ... grew by enough of an increased percentage</i> or (2) the pronoun <i>it</i>.<i>Issue #1:</i> Meaning. The construction <i>grew by enough of an increased percentage</i> is redundant. If the levels <i>grew</i>, then by definition they <i>increased</i>. Eliminate choices (A) and (B).There is a second meaning issue with this construction. Compare (A) and (B):<br>(A) The <i>levels ... grew by enough ... that more heat ... began to be trapped</i><br>(B) The <i>levels ... grew by enough ... to increase the amount of heat trapped</i><br>If you want to say that one thing incidentally led to a second thing, use the construction <i>enough X that Y</i>: I sang loudly enough that I woke the dog up. (I didn't mean to wake her, but it happened.) On the other hand, if you want to say that you did one thing with the intent to cause a second thing to happen, use the construction <i>enough X to Y</i>: I sang loudly enough to wake the dog up. (I was purposely trying to wake the dog up.) In the carbon monoxide sentence, it's not logical to say that the first action occurred because it was trying to make the second action occur—the fact that <i>levels ... grew</i> is not intentionally trying <i>to increase the amount of heat trapped</i>. Answer (E) also conveys the same faulty meaning, so eliminate both (A) and (E).<i>Issue #2:</i> Pronoun. The pronoun <i>it</i> does not refer to a noun in the sentence. It wasn't the Earth that caused the temperature to increase, or the heat, or the carbon monoxide levels. Rather, the temperature increase was a result of a complex chain of events. A pronoun must refer to a specific noun, not to an entire event (or to a set of words that includes a verb).<i>Issue #3:</i> Meaning (again!). Answer (D) says that the <i>carbon monoxide levels</i> themselves are <i>trap</i>(ping) <i>more heat</i> on Earth. Rather, the increase in levels causes more heat to get trapped but the <i>levels</i> themselves cannot actually trap anything. In addition, the sentence finishes with a comma <i>which</i> modifier, which is used to refer to a prior noun in the sentence. It was not the <i>Earth</i> or even the <i>heat</i>, however, that caused a temperature increase. Rather, the fact that more heat was being trapped caused the temperature to increase. Because <i>increased ... to trap more heat</i> is an action, not just a noun, a <i>comma -ing</i> modifier should be used here. Answer (E) also conveys the same faulty meaning, so eliminate both (D) and (E).The correct answer, (C), changes the structure of the sentence in order to remove the two original errors (redundant language and pronoun). Because the sentence doesn't use the <i>enough X that/to Y</i> structure, it also avoids that possible error. Finally, this sentence correctly uses a <i>comma -ing</i> modifier structure in the final portion of the sentence; the entire prior sequence of events resulted in the <i>increase in ... temperature</i>."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::