::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240612

question: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) J sword: not just weapon, spirit <br>(2) Master smith: skilled<br>-how to make<br>-artistic merit + history<br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Japanese sword is a weapon <i>and</i> a work of art, important to both samurai and smith. The smiths were basically artists.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The word <i>inferred</i> indicates that this is an Inference question. Next, the question asks about the <i>structural signature</i> of a sword. To find the support, look at your map; in which paragraph would that information likely be found? The second paragraph talked about how the smiths forged the swords, so go to that paragraph and scan for the phrase <i>structural signature</i>. <br><br>The relevant sentence says: <br><br><i>It was common, though optional, for a master smith to place a physical signature on a blade; moreover, each smith's secret forging techniques left an idiosyncratic structural signature on the smith's blades.</i><br><br>Next, predict an answer: The sentence references both a <i>physical signature</i> and a <i>structural signature</i>, so the structural signature must not be a literal signature. Further, the sentence indicates that each smith's structural signature is distinctive to the individual (<i>idiosyncratic</i>), a result of that smith's <i>secret forging techniques</i>. <br><br>(A) This refers to the physical signature, not the structural signature. <br><br><b>(B) CORRECT.</b> This matches the information articulated in the prediction above. Each smith's process resulted in a structural signature unique to that smith.<br><br>(C) Tricky! The passage does say that a structural signature is unique to one smith, but it does not say that records survive indicating specifically who that smith was. <br><br>(D) The first paragraph does include a quote about the soul of the samurai, but this information is not presented in relation to the information about the structural signature. <br><br>(E) Careful: If you have ever seen a samurai sword, then you may remember that it is curved — but the passage doesn't say so! In any case, since the signature is individual to the smith, something that all swords had in common wouldn't be helpful here."

answers: [
  "It is an inscription that the smith places on the blade during the forging process.",
  "It refers to the particular characteristics of a blade created by a smith's unique forging process.",
  "It suggests that each blade can be traced back to a known master smith.",
  "It reflects the soul of the samurai who wielded the sword.",
  "It refers to the actual curved shape of the blade."
]

explanation: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) J sword: not just weapon, spirit <br>(2) Master smith: skilled<br>-how to make<br>-artistic merit + history<br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Japanese sword is a weapon <i>and</i> a work of art, important to both samurai and smith. The smiths were basically artists.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The word <i>inferred</i> indicates that this is an Inference question. Next, the question asks about the <i>structural signature</i> of a sword. To find the support, look at your map; in which paragraph would that information likely be found? The second paragraph talked about how the smiths forged the swords, so go to that paragraph and scan for the phrase <i>structural signature</i>. <br><br>The relevant sentence says: <br><br><i>It was common, though optional, for a master smith to place a physical signature on a blade; moreover, each smith's secret forging techniques left an idiosyncratic structural signature on the smith's blades.</i><br><br>Next, predict an answer: The sentence references both a <i>physical signature</i> and a <i>structural signature</i>, so the structural signature must not be a literal signature. Further, the sentence indicates that each smith's structural signature is distinctive to the individual (<i>idiosyncratic</i>), a result of that smith's <i>secret forging techniques</i>. <br><br>(A) This refers to the physical signature, not the structural signature. <br><br><b>(B) CORRECT.</b> This matches the information articulated in the prediction above. Each smith's process resulted in a structural signature unique to that smith.<br><br>(C) Tricky! The passage does say that a structural signature is unique to one smith, but it does not say that records survive indicating specifically who that smith was. <br><br>(D) The first paragraph does include a quote about the soul of the samurai, but this information is not presented in relation to the information about the structural signature. <br><br>(E) Careful: If you have ever seen a samurai sword, then you may remember that it is curved — but the passage doesn't say so! In any case, since the signature is individual to the smith, something that all swords had in common wouldn't be helpful here."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::