::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240330

question: "<p>Psychiatric research has shown that receiving high-quality outpatient care, rather than being confined to an institution, produces the best quality of life for people suffering from certain mental health issues. In 1963, responding to this research, the United States government passed a law that released the patients with those mental health issues, representing 95% of the mentally ill patients who had been confined to institutions. In 1983, however, researchers unexpectedly discovered that many of the released patients had a worse quality of life than they had had when institutionalized.</p><p>Which if the following, if true, best explains the unexpected result described in the passage?</p>Psychiatric research has shown that receiving high-quality outpatient care, rather than being confined to an institution, produces the best quality of life for people suffering from certain mental health issues. In 1963, responding to this research, the United States government passed a law that released the patients with those mental health issues, representing 95% of the mentally ill patients who had been confined to institutions. In 1983, however, researchers unexpectedly discovered that many of the released patients had a worse quality of life than they had had when institutionalized.Which if the following, if true, best explains the unexpected result described in the passage?"

answers: [
  "More people were diagnosed with psychiatric disorders in 1983 than in 1963.",
  "In 1983 men who had been released from mental institutions fared worse than did their female counterparts.",
  "A number of psychiatric medications were discovered between 1963 and 1983, including some effective antidepressants.",
  "Most of the released patients from 1963 who were doing badly in 1983 suffered from one of three mental illnesses.",
  "The government did not supply the funding necessary to provide high-quality outpatient mental health care."
]

explanation: "<i>Identify the Question Stem:</i> The words <i>explains the unexpected result</i> indicate that this is an Explain the Discrepancy question.<i>Deconstruct the Argument:</i> Research has shown that providing high-quality outpatient care for certain mental health issues is better than putting people in institutions. In response, in 1963, the US government took steps to release the vast majority of people confined to institutions, all of whom were suffering from the health issues addressed by the research. But, 20 years later, it was unfortunately discovered that many of those people were struggling even more. So what happened?<i>Pause and State the Goal:</i> On Explain the Discrepancy questions, your goal is to find a new piece of information that, when added to the argument, explains why the surprising outcome actually happened. Essentially, the correct answer resolves the discrepancy. Maybe the research was flawed in some way? Or maybe the research was correct but there was some outside reason why things didn't play out the way they were expected to?<i>Work from Wrong to Right:</i><br>(A) The argument concerns the welfare of the people who were released in 1963. It does not address mental health trends among the broader population.<br>(B) While this data point might be useful to help researchers know what to examine further, it doesn't actually explain <i>why</i> the plan didn't work for these people.<br>(C) If anything, this choice makes the situation more puzzling. If better treatments are available, then why are so many people still doing poorly? The task on a Discrepancy question is to resolve the discrepancy, not to exacerbate the discrepancy.<br>(D) The research indicated that people with certain diagnoses would do better with high-quality outpatient care. Only people with those diagnoses were released. So knowing that those who weren't doing well in 1983 had one of three diagnoses doesn't actually explain <i>why</i> the plan didn't work for those people.<br><b>(E) CORRECT.</b> The research did specify that high-quality outpatient care needed to be provided in lieu of institutionalization. If people were released from mental healthcare facilities but did not have access to the necessary high-quality outpatient care, then it would make sense that, 20 years later, the population was struggling even more with these health issues.The correct answer is (E)."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  1
]



---
::