::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240702

question: "If <i>x</i> and <i>y</i> are prime numbers and <i>x</i> &lt; <i>y</i>, which of the following cannot be true?"

answers: [
  "<i>x</i> is even.",
  "<i>x</i> + <i>y</i> is odd.",
  "<i>xy</i> is even.",
  "<i>y</i> + <i>xy</i> is even.",
  "2<i>x</i> + <i>y</i> is even."
]

explanation: "The question stem states that <i>x</i> and <i>y</i> are prime numbers and that <i>x</i> is less than <i>y</i>. Prime numbers are positive integers that are divisible by exactly two factors: themselves and 1. The first few prime numbers are 2, 3, 5, 7, and 11.The question asks which answer choice <i>cannot</i> be true. Test real, easy values that fit the given information until you get yourself down to the single correct answer.Since <i>x</i> is less than <i>y</i>, try <i>x</i> = 2 and <i>y</i> = 3. <br>(A) <i>x</i> is even: This is indeed even, so eliminate this choice.<br>(B) <i>x</i> + <i>y</i> is odd: 2 + 3 = 5. This is indeed odd, so eliminate this choice.<br>(C) <i>xy</i> is even: (2)(3) = 6. This is indeed even, so eliminate this choice.<br>(D) <i>y</i> + <i>xy</i> is even: 3 + (2)(3) = 9. This is not even, so leave this choice in.<br>(E) 2<i>x</i> + <i>y</i> is even: 2(2) + 3 = 7. This is not even, so leave this choice in.Test answers (D) and (E) again with a different pair of numbers: <i>x</i> = 3 and <i>y</i> = 5.<br>(D) <i>y</i> + <i>xy</i> is even: 5 + (3)(5) = 20. This is even, so eliminate this choice.<br>There is only one answer left, so it's not necessary to test it, but here's how it works:<br>(E) 2<i>x</i> + <i>y</i> is even: 2(3) + 5 = 11. This is not even, so leave this choice in.The number 2 is the only even prime number. Many people forget that 2 is prime, so they'll end up trying only odd prime numbers (3, 5, 7, and so on), which won't get you to the right answer on this one. Whenever you see that a problem asks about prime numbers but doesn't specify which prime numbers you can use, immediately write down 2 to remind yourself to consider it as you solve.The correct answer is (E)."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  1
]



---
::