::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240522

question: "What is the sum of <i>x</i>, <i>y</i>, and <i>z</i> ?<br><i>x</i> + <i>y</i> = 8<br><i>x</i> + <i>z</i> = 11<br><i>y</i> + <i>z</i> = 7"

answers: [
  "1",
  "7",
  "13",
  "21",
  "26"
]

explanation: "Don't immediately dive into algebra, substituting one equation into the next in a complicated cascade to try to get down to one variable. You can solve this way—but you'll need so many steps that you're a lot more likely to make mistakes (not to mention, waste a bunch of time).Take a deep breath and examine this setup before you start trying to solve. The problem asks for <i>x</i> + <i>y</i> + <i>z</i>. There are three equations. It's a pain to try to combine just two of the equations (for example, if you subtract the second equation from the first one, you'll get the <i>x</i> to drop out...but you'll still be left with the two variables <i>y</i> and <i>z</i>).Treat this as a Combo (short for combination of variables) problem. Is there a way to solve directly for <i>x</i> + <i>y</i> + <i>z</i>, all at once?You need to end up with the same number of <i>x</i>'s and <i>y</i>'s and <i>z</i>'s in the mix and they need to be added together. Across all three equations combined, there are a total of two <i>x</i>'s, two <i>y</i>'s, and two <i>z</i>'s—that is, the same number of <i>x</i>'s and <i>y</i>'s and <i>z</i>'s, exactly what you need. Try adding up all three equations at once. What happens?<br>2<i>x</i> + 2<i>y</i> + 2<i>z</i> = 26<br><i>x</i> + <i>y</i> + <i>z</i> = 13Done! The correct answer is (C).The test writers are looking for ways to test your ability to think critically and logically about quant topics. Start building a habit of actually thinking about what the problem has given you and what it's asking you to find—before you start frantically doing a bunch of textbook algebra."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::