::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240616

question: "Is <i>x</i> + <i>y</i> &gt; 0 ?(1) <i>x</i> – <i>y</i> &gt; 0(2) <i>x</i><sup>2</sup> – <i>y</i><sup>2</sup> &gt; 0"

answers: [
  "Statement (1) ALONE is sufficient, but statement (2) alone is not sufficient.",
  "Statement (2) ALONE is sufficient, but statement (1) alone is not sufficient.",
  "BOTH statements TOGETHER are sufficient, but NEITHER statement ALONE is sufficient.",
  "EACH statement ALONE is sufficient.",
  "Statements (1) and (2) TOGETHER are NOT sufficient."
]

explanation: "This looks like an inequality problem at first glance, but notice that the inequalities are all &gt; 0. Whenever you see &gt; 0 (positive) or &lt; 0 (negative), think about the question from the point of view of positive and negative values or characteristics.The question asks whether the sum of <i>x</i> and <i>y</i> is positive. If you know <i>x</i> and <i>y</i> are both positive, then the answer to this has to be Yes, but if <i>x</i> and <i>y</i> are both negative, then the answer has to be No. If one is positive and one is negative, then it depends on which value has the greater magnitude (distance from 0 on a number line).(1) INSUFFICIENT: Test some cases to see what's possible. You're only allowed to try values for which statement (1) is true.<br>Case 1: If <i>x</i> = 3 and <i>y</i> = 2, then <i>x</i> – <i>y</i> &gt; 0 and so is <i>x</i> + <i>y</i>. In this case, the answer is Yes,  <i>x</i> + <i>y</i> &gt; 0.<br>Case 2: If <i>x</i> = 2 and <i>y</i> = –3, then <i>x</i> – <i>y</i> &gt; 0 but now <i>x</i> + <i>y</i> is less than 0, not greater than 0. In this case, the answer is No,  <i>x</i> + <i>y</i> is not greater than 0.<br>Since it's possible to get both Yes and No answers, this statement is not sufficient to answer the question.(2) INSUFFICIENT: First, rearrange the inequality given in the statement. <i>x</i><sup>2</sup> – <i>y</i><sup>2</sup> is one of the special quadratics and can also be written (<i>x</i> + <i>y</i>)(<i>x</i> – <i>y</i>). The statement establishes that (<i>x</i> + <i>y</i>)(<i>x</i> – <i>y</i>) &gt; 0. In other words, these two quantities multiply to a positive value. Therefore, it must be the case that either (<i>x</i> + <i>y</i>) and (<i>x</i> – <i>y</i>) are both positive or that (<i>x</i> + <i>y</i>) and (<i>x</i> – <i>y</i>) are both negative. Since <i>x</i> + <i>y</i> could be either positive or negative, this statement is not sufficient to answer the question.(1) AND (2) SUFFICIENT: The second statement establishes that (<i>x</i> + <i>y</i>) and (<i>x</i> – <i>y</i>) have to have the same sign—they're either both positive or both negative. The first statement says that (<i>x</i> – <i>y</i>) is positive. Therefore, (<i>x</i> + <i>y</i>) must also be positive, so the answer to the question is Always Yes, <i>x</i> + <i>y</i> &gt; 0.The correct answer is (C): Both statements together are sufficient to answer the question but neither statement works on its own."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::