::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20231001

question: "Teachers in this country have generally been trained either <u>to approach mathematics like a creative activity or that they should force</u>  students to memorize rules and principleswithout truly understanding how to apply them."

answers: [
  "to approach mathematics as a creative activity or that they should force",
  "to approach mathematics as a creative activity, forcing",
  "to approach mathematics as a creative activity or to force",
  "that they should approach mathematics as a creative activity or to force",
  "that they should approach mathematics as a creative activity or that they should force"
]

explanation: "<i>First Glance</i>: Before reading the sentence, glance at the beginning of the underline to see whether you can find an early clue about what this sentence might be testing. The underline starts right after the word either, so there's a pretty good chance that this is testing the <i>either X or Y</i> parallelism structure. Glance at the beginning of each answer choice. There are two options (<i>to approach or that they should approach</i>), so this problem is indeed testing what structure to use for the <i>X</i> and <i>Y</i> elements of the parallelism structure.<i>Read the Sentence and Choose a Starting Point:</i> As you read, look for the second half of the parallelism structure: the <i>or Y</i> portion. The structure in the original sentence is <i>either to approach ... or that they should force</i>. The <i>X</i> element is in the form of an infinitive verb, while the <i>Y</i> element is in the form of a <i>that</i> modifier. This isn't parallel, so eliminate answer (A).<i>Issue #1: Parallelism</i>. Check the remaining answers to see whether any repeat the error in the original sentence. Answer (D) has the same error as answer (A) but in reverse order: It tries to pair <i>that they should approach</i> with <i>to force</i>. Eliminate answer (D). Answer (B) changes the sentence structure entirely: It never provides the <i>or Y</i> half of the structure. You can't have <i>either</i> without <i>or</i>, so eliminate answer (B).<i>Issue #2: Idiom</i>. There are only two answers left, (C) and (E), so compare them directly to find the differences. The only difference is in the start of the <i>X</i> and <i>Y</i> elements. Is it <i>either to approach ... or to force?</i> Or is it <i>either that they should approach ... or that they should force?</i> Look a little earlier in the sentence. The <i>teachers have been trained ... to do something?</i> Or the <i>teachers have been trained ... that they should do something</i>? Idiomatically, someone is <i>trained to do</i> something. You can't say that someone is <i>trained that they should do</i> something.The correct answer, (C), corrects the parallelism error introduced in the original sentence by making sure that <i>X</i> and <i>Y</i> elements of the <i>either X or Y</i> structure are in the same form. Further, this choice uses the proper idiom: Someone is <i>trained to do</i> something."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0
]

---
::