::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240626

question: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) VZ = inventor<br>-S = father of TV<br>-really F<br>(2) F not part of process, focus edu<br>-S made comm (same as radio)<br>(3) S just adapt? or visionary?<br>-Some see S neg, some pos<br><br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Farnsworth really invented TV, but he didn't know how to turn it into a business. Sarnoff used the radio model to make television big business. People have differing feelings about his role.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The language <i>according to the passage</i> indicates that this is a Detail question. The passage discusses television revenues in the second and third paragraphs. Search for the information. <br><br>Paragraph 2: <i>advertisers pay for the programming</i><br><br>Paragraph 3: <i>replacing the revenue from subscriptions and newsstand purchases with that of television set sales</i><br><br>(A) Revenue was also earned from the sale of TV sets. <br><br><b>(B) CORRECT.</b> Revenue was earned from advertisers and the sale of TV sets.<br><br>(C) Subscriptions were used in the newspaper industry, not the television industry.<br><br>(D) Subscriptions were used in the newspaper industry, not the television industry.<br><br>(E) Subscriptions were used in the newspaper industry, not the television industry."

answers: [
  "advertising only",
  "advertising and the sale of television sets",
  "advertising and subscriptions",
  "subscriptions and the sale of television sets",
  "advertising, subscriptions, and the sale of television sets"
]

explanation: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) VZ = inventor<br>-S = father of TV<br>-really F<br>(2) F not part of process, focus edu<br>-S made comm (same as radio)<br>(3) S just adapt? or visionary?<br>-Some see S neg, some pos<br><br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): Farnsworth really invented TV, but he didn't know how to turn it into a business. Sarnoff used the radio model to make television big business. People have differing feelings about his role.<br><br>Next, identify the question type. The language <i>according to the passage</i> indicates that this is a Detail question. The passage discusses television revenues in the second and third paragraphs. Search for the information. <br><br>Paragraph 2: <i>advertisers pay for the programming</i><br><br>Paragraph 3: <i>replacing the revenue from subscriptions and newsstand purchases with that of television set sales</i><br><br>(A) Revenue was also earned from the sale of TV sets. <br><br><b>(B) CORRECT.</b> Revenue was earned from advertisers and the sale of TV sets.<br><br>(C) Subscriptions were used in the newspaper industry, not the television industry.<br><br>(D) Subscriptions were used in the newspaper industry, not the television industry.<br><br>(E) Subscriptions were used in the newspaper industry, not the television industry."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  1, 
  0, 
  0, 
  0
]



---
::