::GMAT
---


serialNumber: 20240712

question: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) new disc → undermine old beliefs<br>-child fossil → new theories<br>(2) 2 things changed w/child<br>-walking / limbs<br>-speech / hyoid<br><br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): New discoveries change old ideas and give rise to new theories. A detailed archaeological example illustrates this overall point. The discovery of a particular skeleton led researchers to reexamine theories about early human life.<br><br>This is an inference question. Look for support for the correct answer by finding the hyoid bone in the second paragraph. <br><br>Consider everything the passage states about the hyoid bone: it is <i>rarely preserved</i>; it <i>supports the muscles of the throat</i>; its presence has impacted <i>theories about the origins of speech</i>; it is <i>primitive</i>; it is <i>more similar to that of apes</i>; it is the <i>first hyoid found</i> in an early human-related species.The correct answer must be true based on these facts, and it cannot rely on anything not stated. <br><br>(A) This is tempting, but it goes too far. The passage relates the hyoid to speech but does not support the claim that afarensis could actually speak. <br><br>(B) Check the last sentence of the paragraph. Tricky! The passage calls the discovered hyoid bone <i>primitive</i> and <i>similar to that of apes</i>, but does not make any direct comparisons between the two. <br><br>(C) The passage does connect the hyoid bone to speech, but does not provide support for the extreme claim that the bone is <i>necessary</i> for speech. <br><br><b>(D) CORRECT.</b> The passage sets up the second paragraph by stating that the discovery could <i>reshape conceptions about</i> early humans. The passage then says that the hyoid discovery has had a tremendous impact on theories about the origins of speech. <br><br>(E) The discovery of the hyoid was certainly important, but the passage provides no information on the relative importance of fossils found at the site."

answers: [
  "Australopithecus afarensis was capable of speech",
  "the discovered hyoid bone is less primitive than the hyoid bone of apes",
  "the hyoid bone is necessary for speech",
  "the discovery of the hyoid bone necessitated the reexamination of prior theories about speech",
  "the hyoid bone was the most important fossil found at the site"
]

explanation: "Sample passage map (yours will likely differ):<br><br>(1) new disc → undermine old beliefs<br>-child fossil → new theories<br>(2) 2 things changed w/child<br>-walking / limbs<br>-speech / hyoid<br><br><br>The point (articulate to yourself; don't write): New discoveries change old ideas and give rise to new theories. A detailed archaeological example illustrates this overall point. The discovery of a particular skeleton led researchers to reexamine theories about early human life.<br><br>This is an inference question. Look for support for the correct answer by finding the hyoid bone in the second paragraph. <br><br>Consider everything the passage states about the hyoid bone: it is <i>rarely preserved</i>; it <i>supports the muscles of the throat</i>; its presence has impacted <i>theories about the origins of speech</i>; it is <i>primitive</i>; it is <i>more similar to that of apes</i>; it is the <i>first hyoid found</i> in an early human-related species.The correct answer must be true based on these facts, and it cannot rely on anything not stated. <br><br>(A) This is tempting, but it goes too far. The passage relates the hyoid to speech but does not support the claim that afarensis could actually speak. <br><br>(B) Check the last sentence of the paragraph. Tricky! The passage calls the discovered hyoid bone <i>primitive</i> and <i>similar to that of apes</i>, but does not make any direct comparisons between the two. <br><br>(C) The passage does connect the hyoid bone to speech, but does not provide support for the extreme claim that the bone is <i>necessary</i> for speech. <br><br><b>(D) CORRECT.</b> The passage sets up the second paragraph by stating that the discovery could <i>reshape conceptions about</i> early humans. The passage then says that the hyoid discovery has had a tremendous impact on theories about the origins of speech. <br><br>(E) The discovery of the hyoid was certainly important, but the passage provides no information on the relative importance of fossils found at the site."

answerKey: [
  0, 
  0, 
  0, 
  1, 
  0
]



---
::