::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240417

question: " For months, the party leaders had succeeded in concealing their ulterior motives, which nevertheless became _______ to everyone after the coup they attempted last week."

answers: [
  'illicit',
  'evident',
  'substantial',
  'discernible',
  'ambiguous',
  'plausible'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> In this sentence, the word \"nevertheless\" serves as a detour roadsign, indicating that the second clause in the sentence will contrast with the first. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> Therefore, predict that the correct answer will contrast with the party leaders' concealment of their motives. It follows that the missing word will have a meaning similar to \"obvious.\" <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> Choices <strong>(B) </strong><i>evident</i>, meaning \"easily understood\" or \"obvious,\" and <strong>(D) </strong><i>discernible</i>, meaning \"apparent,\" match this prediction, so these are the correct answers. <strong>(A) </strong><i>illicit</i> means \"illegal,\" which could possibly characterize the leaders' actions but does not fit the context of the sentence - the leaders' <i>motives </i>did not become illegal after the attempted coup - so this choice is incorrect. <strong>(C) </strong><i>substantial</i> is incorrect because it means \"significant\" or \"substantive\" and makes no sense in the context of the sentence. <strong>(E) </strong><i>ambiguous</i> is incorrect because it means \"unclear,\" which is the opposite of the prediction. <strong>(F) </strong><i>plausible</i> means \"believable,\" which could make sense when applied to someone's motivation but does not offer a contrast to the word \"concealing.\" Moreover, there is no second choice that produces a logically similar meaning. For these reasons, <strong>(F)</strong> is incorrect. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> Read back into the sentence, <strong>(B)</strong> and <strong>(D)</strong> make sense and give the sentence the same meaning. They are the correct answers. TAKEAWAY: In Sentence Equivalence, not only must an answer choice potentially fit in the sentence, but there must also be another choice that gives the sentence the same sense."

answerKey: [0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0]

---
::