::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240704

question: " Pundits were quick to say that the mayor's stance on environmental reform was far too _______; she easily relinquished her already minimal resolve to avoid confrontation."

answers: [
  'temperate',
  'craven',
  'timid',
  'moderate',
  'self-serving',
  'radical'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> This sentence's straight-ahead roadsign, the semicolon, indicates that the theme in one clause is mirrored in the other. The pundits felt the mayor wanted to \"avoid confrontation\" and gave up her \"already minimal resolve.\" <strong>Predict an answer</strong> The words need to reflect that the mayor gave in too easily and was weak or cowardly. <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> <strong>(B)</strong> <i>craven</i> and <strong>(C)</strong> <i>timid </i>both indicate lack of courage or boldness, and these are the correct answers. (A) <i>temperate</i> and (D) <i>moderate</i> are synonyms meaning \"mild\" and are too neutral to reflect the fact that the mayor \"easily relinquished\" her position to \"avoid confrontation.\" The words needed here must indicate that the mayor is weak or cowardly. Choice (E) <i>self-serving</i> is incorrect because nothing in the context of the sentence shows that the mayor is doing this for her own benefit. (F) <i>radical</i> is incorrect because it conflicts with the keywords in the second clause. The mayor's resolve was already minimal, and she \"easily\" gave up; radical, or extreme, therefore doesn't fit. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> Pundits were quick to say that the mayor's stance on environmental reform was far too <i>craven</i>/<i>timid</i>; she easily relinquished her already minimal resolve to avoid confrontation.<br> TAKEAWAY: Don't immediately focus on words in the choices that are strong synonyms of each other. Sometimes there are two words that are more obviously synonyms than the correct answers but that don't fit as well into the sentence."

answerKey: [0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0]

---
::