::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240111

question: " The (i)_______ design of the palace is remarkable for its exceptional (ii)_______, although some criticize the interior as (iii)_______, filled with vivid and contrasting colors and patterns considered unbefitting by more conservative experts."

answers: [
  'voguish',
  'austere',
  'rococo',
  'ornamentation',
  'ostentation',
  'overlay',
  'utilitarian',
  'exquisite',
  'garish'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The most concrete clue in this sentence is \"vivid and contrasting colors and patterns.\" Further, this exciting decorating scheme is viewed negatively by \"conservative\" folks, who apparently think it should be less exciting. Blank (iii), which is how critics describe the inside of the palace, will relate to these details and be negative in tone. Blanks (i) and (ii) are closely related, as one modifies the design of the palace and the other gives a \"remarkable\" detail that illustrates that design. Both blanks will be consistent with \"vivid and contrasting colors and patterns.\" <strong>Predict an answer</strong> Because all three blanks describe the palace, you can predict variations on \"highly colorful and decorated\" for all three. Blanks (i) and (iii) will be adjectives that align with this description, with blank (iii) taking on the color of critics' negative views, and blank (ii) will be a noun that means something like \"colors\" or \"decoration.\" <strong>Select the choice(s) that most closely match(es) your prediction</strong> <strong>(C) </strong><i>rococo</i> is the correct choice for the first blank, as this word means \"highly or excessively ornamented.\" (A) <i>voguish</i> means \"popular,\" and while someone must have liked the design or they wouldn't have decorated their palace this way, there's no information about whether the design is generally popular. (B) <i>austere</i> in this context would mean \"unadorned,\" and that is the opposite of what is wanted. For blank (ii), the correct choice is <strong>(D)</strong><i>ornamentation</i>. (E) <i>ostentation</i>, \"excessive display to attract attention or excite envy,\" might be tempting. However, there is no evidence as to why the palace was decorated in this way. It is highly <i>ornamented</i>, but not necessarily <i>ostentatious</i>. An (F) <i>overlay</i> could be the particular kind of ornamentation used, but this word is too specific. <strong>(I)</strong><i>garish</i> is a great match for the prediction; this word means \"vivid, often in a tasteless or excessive way.\" (G) <i>utilitarian</i> means \"practical,\" and nothing about the design speaks to practicality. Some people might find the design (H) <i>exquisite</i>, but not those to \"criticize\" it. <strong>Check your answer</strong> The <i>rococo</i> design of the palace is remarkable for its exceptional <i>ornamentation</i>, although some criticize the interior as <i>garish</i>, filled with vivid and contrasting colors and patterns considered unbefitting by more conservative experts. TAKEAWAY: When predicting for a blank, note whether the context supports a positive, negative, or neutral connotation. Then choose a word that aligns with that charge."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::