::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231115

question: "Confucian _______ are the extent of many Americans' understanding of Chinese philosophy; these sayings, though important, are only one aspect of a highly developed philosophical system."

answers: [
  'reliquaries',
  'adages',
  'aphorisms',
  'phylacteries',
  'adumbrations',
  'malapropisms'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The semicolon in the sentence is a straight-ahead roadsign, so the second half of the sentence will be a continuation of the first half. The words \"these sayings\" immediately after the semicolon indicate that the first part of the sentence is also concerned with the same sayings. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> The word in the blank must be a synonym for \"sayings.\" <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> <strong>(B)</strong> <i>adages </i>means \"old sayings or proverbs,\" and <strong>(C)</strong> <i>aphorisms</i> means \"old sayings or short pithy statements.\" Both match the prediction and are correct. (A) <i>reliquaries</i>, or \"containers for relics,\" does not refer to \"sayings,\" so it is incorrect. (D) <i>phylacteries</i>, or \"containers for scriptures,\" is incorrect because the sentence clearly refers to sayings and not scriptures or their containers. (E) <i>adumbrations</i>, or \"foreshadowings or suggestions,\" is too specific; the sayings might have been <i>adumbrations</i>, but they also might not have been, and at any rate no other choice has the same meaning. (F) <i>malapropisms</i>, or \"humorous misuses of words,\" are related to sayings but would not be considered \"important,\" so (F) is also incorrect. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> Confucian <i>adages/aphorisms</i> are the extent of many Americans' understanding of Chinese philosophy; these sayings, though important, are only one aspect of a highly developed philosophical system. TAKEAWAY: Sometimes, the correct answer is simply a synonym of a word in the sentence. Don't overthink sentences like these. Find the two synonyms and move on."

answerKey: [0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0]

---
::