::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240720

question: " In addition to its status as a textile, the Bayeux Tapestry serves as an important source of information about the Norman Invasion of England. It contains a sequential arrangement of images that tells the story of the events leading up to the invasion and the eventual victory at the Battle of Hastings of William the Conqueror. However, calling into question the tapestry's authority as an objective report of contemporary history is the supposition that the tapestry was commissioned by William's half-brother and thus tells the story of the event from a Norman perspective. Crucial information about some of the events depicted seems to have been omitted from the embroidery. It is possible the Bayeux Tapestry colored contemporary public perception of the event because at the time, the majority of people were illiterate and could only read about the invasion in pictorial format. Which of the following statements is most similar to the one underlying the author's reasoning regarding the authority of the Bayeux Tapestry?"

answers: [
  'A building can be constructed in a number of different ways.',
  'Laws must be evaluated within the context in which they were created.',
  'Misinterpretation of a political speech can alter the historic record.',
  'Technological developments quickly become outdated.',
  'The classification of what constitutes a work of art must be loosely defined.'
]

explanation: "<strong>Analyze the question stem</strong> This question asks for a statement that parallels the author's argument about the authority of the Bayeux Tapestry. <strong>Research</strong> The author discusses the authority of the tapestry in the third sentence. In the first two sentences, the author establishes that the tapestry is an important source of historical information, but in this sentence, the author qualifies the tapestry's historical accuracy, saying it reflects the point of view of only one side in the battle. In the next sentence, the author says some information is missing from the tapestry's version of events. <strong>Make a prediction</strong> The author calls into question the tapestry's authority because of who had it made. Therefore, the correct answer will indicate that evaluating a piece of evidence involves, whenever possible, knowing who created it and why and under what circumstances it was created. <strong>Evaluate the answer choices</strong> <strong>(B)</strong> matches the prediction and is correct. (A), (D), and (E) fail to include the need for context. (C) might be a tempting answer because misinterpretations of historical events may have occurred based on the tapestry, but it doesn't offer a reason why that misinterpretation took place. In the case of the tapestry, any misinterpretation in the historical record is due, the author believes, to the tapestry having been commissioned by William's brother, a fellow Norman. TAKEAWAY: For questions that ask for parallel reasoning, don't match details from the text; instead, match the logical principle that the author applies. <strong>Read the passage strategically</strong> Topic: The Bayeux Tapestry Scope: The content of the Bayeux Tapestry Purpose: To explain the importance of the Bayeux Tapestry and its possible bias"

answerKey: [0, 1, 0, 0, 0]

---
::