::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240120

question: " What is the approximate median of the amounts of sales of the brands sold by store <i>T</i> in the year 2015 ?"

answers: [
  '$400,000',
  '$450,000',
  '$500,000',
  '$600,000',
  '$700,000'
]

explanation: "Approach strategically To find the median of a list of numbers, first arrange the numbers in increasing order. If there is an odd number of numbers, the median is the middle number. If there is an even number of numbers, the median is the average of the two middle numbers. Find sales of the five departments on the bar graph. You can find the middle value by inspecting the bar graph and finding the middle height among the five bars, which is for brand D and is about $400,000. (A) is correct. If you didn't feel confident gathering the data this way, you could read the values from the graph. The sales for the five departments are approximately 700, 750, 350, 400, and 300. Arrange these numbers in increasing order: 300, 350, 400, 700, and 750. The middle value is 400, so the median brand's sales for the year are approximately $400,000. (A) is the winner. TAKEAWAY: Graphs present information visually. Take advantage of this fact whenever you can to answer questions without performing calculations. <strong>Analyze the graphs</strong> Two graphs are presented: a bar graph that shows the sales numbers for five different brands of clothing by a store in the year 2015, and a pie chart that shows the percentages of brand <i>A</i>'s total sales for six 2-month periods over the same year."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 0]

---
::