::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20230930

question: "The paper recently promoted the reporter; she is known for her _______ style, which elicits information better than the more aggressive approach taken by her colleagues."

answers: [
  'subtle',
  'affable',
  'languid',
  'lethargic',
  'understated',
  'meticulous'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The words \"better than\" are a detour roadsign indicating that the reporter's style is being contrasted with the \"more aggressive approach\" of her colleagues. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> A reporting style that is not aggressive might be more \"relaxed,\" \"calculated,\" or \"nuanced.\" <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> <strong>(A)</strong> <i>subtle</i> and <strong>(E)</strong> <i>understated</i> are the best fit for the blank, as they are synonyms of one another and contrast with \"aggressive\" in the context of reporting style. (C) <i>languid</i> and (D) <i>lethargic</i> are synonyms that mean \"listless\" or \"sluggish.\" These convey a negative tone that doesn't work with the sentence, which portrays the reporter in a positive light. The reporter's style is \"better\" than that of her colleagues, and she has been promoted in her job at least in part because of her reporting style. (B) <i>affable,</i> which means \"friendly,\" is arguably an appropriate contrast to the \"aggressive approach\" of other reporters, but there is no other word among the choices that would create a sentence similar in meaning. (F) <i>meticulous</i> means \"careful about details\" and might be a good quality for a reporter to have when eliciting information, but it does not clearly contrast with the aggressive style of the other reporters. Aggressive reporters might also be meticulous. There is also no other word among the choices that would create a sentence similar in meaning. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> The paper recently promoted the reporter; she is known for her <i>subtle/understated</i> style, which elicits information better than the more aggressive approach taken by her colleagues. TAKEAWAY: The two answers must create sentences of similar meaning. Any word in the choices that would create a sentence of unique meaning can be quickly eliminated."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::