::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240128

question: " What is the percent increase in the average number of hours spent watching prime-time sports programs between high school and college?"

answers: [
  '2%',
  '5%',
  '34%',
  '40%',
  '54%'
]

explanation: "Approach strategically The question asks for the percent increase in sports viewing from high school to college, so the first step is to find the number of hours spent watching sports by each age group. High school students spent 25%, or one-fourth, of their 12 hours watching sports; that's 3 hours per week watching sports. College students spent 30% of their 15.4 hours viewing sports: 30% of 15.4 ≈ (0.3)(15) ≈ 4.5. (To do this quickly in your head, figure that 0.1 of 15 is 1.5, then 3 times that is 4.5.) Keep in mind that since you rounded 15.4 down to 15 to make the arithmetic easy, the actual number of sports-viewing hours is a bit more than 4.5. So, the increase in viewing was a little more than 4.5 - 3 = 1.5 hours. To calculate the percent increase, you'd see what percent 1.5 is of the original value, which is 3. However, notice that 1.5 is half of 3, and that actual value is a little more than this. Thus, there's only one possible answer, (E) . For the record, if you used your onscreen calculator to calculate the answer precisely, it would look like this: High school students watch 0.25 x 12 = 3 hours College students watch 0.30 x 15.4 = 4.62 hours Difference: 4.62 - 3 = 1.62 hours Percent increase: 1.62 3 x 100 % = 0.54 x 100 % = 54 % TAKEAWAY: Always look for opportunities to estimate and avoid potentially time-consuming calculations. <strong>Analyze the table</strong> The title \"Average Weekly Viewing of Prime-Time Television\" indicates that the chart deals with prime time only, and the chart breaks this viewing down further across genre categories, listed along the top of the chart, and viewer groups, listed down the left. Notice that these numbers are given as percents. The exception is the column on the far right, which shows the average weekly prime-time viewing in hours by viewer group. Nowhere are the numbers of each type of viewer given, so it is not possible to calculate the total number of hours of any genre watched by, say, preschoolers. To find the number of hours spent watching a prime-time program type for a particular viewer type, you'd need to multiply the percent at the intersection of that program/viewer type by the number of hours in the far right column for that viewer category."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::