::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240418

question: " The vertical zonation of sessile marine species in the intertidal zone is a long-examined phenomenon. A particular tide-cycle study examined the incidence of two sessile animal species, the common mussel (Mytilus edulis) and the acorn barnacle (Semibalanus balanoides), in plots of increasing altitude in the intertidal zone of a beach preserve in coastal Massachusetts. Results showed that incidence of Mytilus increased as height decreased, and incidence of Semibalanusincreased as height increased, up to the high-tide line or \"barnacle line.\" This distribution suggests competition between the two species, with the mussel successfully outcompeting the barnacle for more time underwater and the barnacle evincing more ability than the mussel to reside in less ideal conditions. The study also indicates that barnacles display numerous adaptations that equip them for life in the upper tide zone. Which of the following, if true, would best strengthen the study's results?"

answers: [
  'In tropical waters where there are no mussels, barnacles live predominantly close to the high-tide line.',
  'Barnacle concentration decreases as the high-tide mark decreases in height.',
  'Mussels can survive in air-only environments three times longer than barnacles.',
  'Barnacles are able to feed on land-based flora, while mussels can only gain nutrition from underwater species.',
  'When a larger geographical area is studied, the incidence of mussels matches that of barnacles.'
]

explanation: "<strong>Analyze the question stem</strong> This is a Strengthen question; the right answer will make the results of the study more likely to be true. <strong>Research</strong> According to the passage, the study indicated two things: mussels outcompete barnacles for underwater space, and barnacles are better adapted to live out of the water. <strong>Make a prediction</strong> The correct answer will provide a reason to believe that one of these conclusions is more likely to be true. <strong>Evaluate the answer choices</strong> <strong>(D)</strong> is correct; it provides evidence of a specific adaptation that barnacles have that lets them live above the water, while also providing a reason that mussels must live underwater. (A) is a 180; it would actually weaken the argument if barnacles lived in the high-tide zone even when there is no competition, since the study indicates that only competition with mussels has forced the barnacles to adapt to the less favorable environment. (B) is a distortion; in the passage, barnacle concentration is related to height, rather than the height of the high-tide mark. No connection can be made directly from the passage concerning the height of the high-tide mark. (C) is a 180, because this would support mussel adaptability to drier conditions rather than barnacle adaptability. (E) is irrelevant; it indicates that barnacles and mussels often live near each other, but it doesn't support the study's conclusions about the relative heights of each species. TAKEAWAY: Remember that in Strengthen questions, the right answer doesn't have to prove the conclusion to be true beyond any doubt; all it has to do is make it more likely to be true. <strong>Read strategically</strong> Topic: The habitats of mussels (<i>M</i>) and barnacles (<i>S</i>) Scope: A study on the habitat of barnacles and mussels Purpose: To explain the study's results, which indicate different competitive advantages for the two species"

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::