::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240410

question: "Although their effects may be similar, the temporary visual impairments known as inattentional blindness and change blindness are in fact not the same phenomena.Inattentional blindness occurs when the viewer's mind, while paying close attention to a certain piece of sensory information or a particular task, favors that input or activity by excluding other data from consideration. For example, a driver deeply engaged in a phone conversation can look directly at an obvious road hazard without actually noticing it. By contrast, change blindness occurs when the viewer fails to notice a change in a viewed object due to other stimuli. Even major changes to subjects within one's field of vision, such as a car suddenly swerving out in front of a driver, may go unnoticed if at the same time a distracting event, such as the sweep of windshield wipers across the driver's field of view, occurs. The transitory event obscures the more important change, preventing the mind from processing and thereby reacting to the variation. Change blindness can also present itself when peripheral modifications occur so slowly that the changes do not capture the viewer's attention. What roles do the two highlighted portions play in the passage?"

answers: [
  "The first states the passage's thesis, and the second undermines the thesis.",
  'The first defines inattentional blindness, and the second defines change blindness.',
  'The first refers to a common misconception, and the second corrects that misconception.',
  'The first explains the primary differences between two visual experiences, and the second provides a general definition of one.',
  'The first differentiates between concepts, and the second describes a subdivision of a particular concept.'
]

explanation: "<strong>Analyze the question stem </strong> Since there is only one question on this passage, read the question first. This is a Logic question, as it asks the reader to assess the purpose of two specific sentences within the passage. <strong>Read the passage strategically </strong> Read the entire passage to grasp the context within which the two highlighted sentences perform specific roles. Noting topic, scope, and purpose will help you keep focused and grasp the structure of the passage. Topic: Inattentional blindness vs. change blindness Scope: Differences between inatt'l blindness and change blindness Purpose: To describe the difference between inattentional blindness and change blindness <strong>Make a prediction </strong> To understand the purpose of the first and last sentences within the passage, it is important to understand the organization of the passage as a whole. The author presents two phenomena that have similar effects but are distinct from one another in their causes. The author then goes on to explain the causes of each phenomenon. After describing inattentional blindness, the author describes two different types of change blindness. The first highlighted sentence states that inattentional blindness and change blindness are in fact different from one another, and this is the scope of the passage. The second highlighted sentence discusses a subcategory of change blindness. <strong>Evaluate the answer choices</strong> <strong>(E) </strong>matches the prediction and is correct. (A) is a half-right, half-wrong trap answer. It correctly describes the first highlighted sentence as the thesis. However, the second highlighted sentence does not provide contradictory information that would undermine that thesis. Instead, it is part of an example that supports the thesis that the two types of blindness are different. (B) is incorrect in its entirety; neither of the highlighted sentences defines a term. The first introduces the topic/scope of the passage, while the second elaborates on a type of change blindness. (C)'s description of the first highlighted sentence might have been tempting, because the need for classification may have arisen from a misconception. However, what it says about the second highlighted sentence is entirely incorrect. The second highlighted sentence explains a form of change blindness and does not refer to inattentional blindness at all. (D) is incorrect in its entirety; the first highlighted sentence offers no explanation of the distinction, and the second only describes a subdivision of change blindness. TAKEAWAY: A thorough understanding of the entire passage is necessary in order to assess the purpose of specific sentences within that passage."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::