::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240422

question: " In an effort to avoid revealing their culpability, the boys responded with _______ tale, hoping the lengthy, pointless story would convince their parents that they had been engaged in lawful activities."

answers: [
  'a poignant',
  'a candid',
  'an opaque',
  'a parochial',
  'a meandering',
  'a circuitous'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The blank describes a story, which the sentence goes on to say is \"lengthy\" and \"pointless.\" <strong>Predict an answer</strong> The right answers will be two words that reflect this meaning. <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> Both <strong>(E)</strong> <i>meandering</i> and <strong>(F)</strong> <i>circuitous</i> have meanings of \"indirect\" or \"roundabout\"; since they match the prediction, they're correct. (A) <i>poignant</i> means \"emotionally moving\" and can be eliminated for not matching the prediction. (B) <i>candid</i>, meaning \"frank\" or \"honest,\" is the opposite of the prediction; the boys told the story to avoid getting into trouble. (C) <i>opaque</i> means \"difficult to see through,\" which may seem tempting as the boys were telling a story they hoped their parents wouldn't see through. However, this choice wouldn't produce a sentence equivalent to one completed by any of the other choices. (D) <i>parochial</i> means \"limited\" or \"provincial,\" meanings that are unrelated to the sentence. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> In an effort to avoid revealing their culpability, the boys responded with <i>a meandering/a circuitous tale</i>, hoping the lengthy, pointless story would convince their parents that they had been engaged in lawful activities. TAKEAWAY: If an answer choice fits the sentence but no other choice offers an equivalent word, it's wrong."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1]

---
::