::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240629

question: " Given that a child's fantasy play so often includes (i)_______ playmates, it is tempting to call upon the positive relationship between social competence and fantasy play to (ii)_______ theories suggesting that the creation of imaginary friends may be linked to social (iii)_______."

answers: [
  'affable',
  'chimerical',
  'languid',
  'recognize',
  'invalidate',
  'corroborate',
  'ineptitude',
  'compunction',
  'septicemia'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The first blank is an adjective that describes playmates involved in fantasy play, and this kind of play is used to evaluate theories involving imaginary friends; thus, the first blank must also refer to imaginary friends. The second blank describes the effect \"the positive relationship between social competence and fantasy play\" has on theories involving imaginary friends; however, it is important to notice that the theories are actually described by the third blank, so there's a direct relationship between these two blanks. <strong>Predict the answers</strong> The first blank will be a word meaning \"imaginary.\" Because of the direct relationship between the final two blanks, if the third blank describes that theories about imaginary friends show that such friends promote social competence, then the second blank would indicate that the given evidence of positivity supports these theories. However, if the studies show social incompetence, then the given evidence would tend to disprove these theories. Either of these two sets of answers would be right, but only one can show up in the answer choices. <strong>Select the best matches from among the choices</strong> <strong>(B)</strong> <i>chimerical</i> means \"imaginary\" and is thus the first correct answer. Someone who's (A) <i>affable</i>, or \"pleasant,\" would make a good playmate, but the clues specifically point to an imaginary friend. (C) <i>languid</i> means \"slow,\" which also doesn't fit the clues. For the second blank, (D) <i>recognize</i> can be eliminated, since it's too neutral. However, the evidence could either (E) <i>invalidate</i> (\"disprove\") or (F) <i>corroborate </i>(\"support\") the theories, depending on what's in the third blank, so move on to that one before you make a choice here. <strong>(G)</strong> <i>ineptitude</i> (or \"lack of skill\") is the only word that could describe these social theories. (H) <i>compunction</i> means \"a feeling of uneasiness about doing something wrong,\" which doesn't fit the context of studies about imaginary friends. <i>septicemia</i> means \"blood poisoning,\" which makes no sense in this context. Thus, if the theories are that imaginary friends lead to social <i>ineptitude</i>, then the positive results about imaginary friends at issue must <i>invalidate</i> these studies. <strong>(E)</strong> is correct for the second blank.<i></i> <strong>Confirm your answer by reading it into the sentence</strong> Given that a child's fantasy play so often includes <i>chimerical</i> playmates, it is tempting to call upon the positive relationship between social competence and fantasy play to <i>invalidate </i>theories suggesting that the creation of imaginary friends may be linked to social <i>ineptitude</i>. TAKEAWAY: When there's such a direct relationship between blanks, it's possible that more than one set of words could fit into the blanks; however, only one of those sets can actually appear in the choices."

answerKey: [0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0]

---
::