::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231013

question: "The costs of building, manning and maintaining the giant oil rigs of the Canning Basin are so prodigious that they would be _______ were there not such a bounty of oil to be extracted."

answers: [
  'stupendous',
  'profitable',
  'prohibitive',
  'immeasurable',
  'commensurate'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> \"Prodigious\" means \"very large.\" If the costs are huge, what would be their effect, were it not for the bounty (or abundance) of oil? <strong>Predict an answer</strong> They would make the operation unprofitable, so look for a word with that meaning in the answer choices. <strong>Select the choice that most closely matches your prediction</strong> If there weren't money to be made from the oil, the costs would be <strong>(C) </strong><i>prohibitive</i>; they'd prohibit, or \"prevent\", the oil companies from making a profit. This is the correct answer. (A) <i>stupendous</i> and (D) <i>immeasurable </i>would both be synonyms for \"prodigious\"; however, the blank isn't describing the profits themselves but their effects. Furthermore, since they mean the same thing in this context, there's no way to pick one over the other, so they both must be wrong. (B) <i>profitable</i> is the opposite of what's needed. (E) <i>commensurate</i> means \"equivalent to\" or \"the same as\"; with nothing to complete this comparison, this doesn't work. <strong>Check your answer</strong> The costs of building, manning and maintaining the giant oil rigs of the Canning Basin are so prodigious that they would be <i>prohibitive</i> were there not such a bounty of oil to be extracted. TAKEAWAY: When two synonyms show up as choices for the same blank in Text Completion, both can be eliminated. There's no way to pick one over the other."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 0, 0]

---
::