::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240307

question: "Albeit unintentionally, Roy Lichtenstein was a founding member of the pop art movement - a 1960s manifestation of counterculture values that rested on a disdain for tradition. By imbuing icons of popular culture with elements of abstract expressionism, Lichtenstein created a mockery of art in a comic-book style with a strong whiff of commercial art - the bane of the serious artist. Lichtenstein attempted to parody established ideas of art and thus disassociate himself from artistic expression, but as the concept of pop art took hold, he gained renown in the art world. As pop art progressed, Lichtenstein's ideas endured, and the depiction of popular icons of American culture through the use of commercial techniques came to characterize the genre. What purpose does the highlighted portion of the text serve in the passage?"

answers: [
  "It demonstrates Lichtenstein's unconventional logic.",
  "It contradicts Lichtenstein's primary argument.",
  "It exposes Lichtenstein's contradictory goals.",
  "It expresses the paradox of Lichtenstein's artistic contribution.",
  "It suggests a transformation in Lichtenstein's art."
]

explanation: "<strong>Analyze the question stem</strong> Because there is just one question on this passage, analyze the question stem first. This is a Logic question, as it asks the reader to assess the purpose of a specific sentence within the passage. <strong>Read the passage strategically </strong> The role of the sentence will need to be understood in the context of the author's purpose in writing the passage, so note topic, scope, and purpose as you read. Topic: Roy Lichtenstein Scope: Lichtenstein's role in pop art Purpose: To describe Lichtenstein's role in founding a counterculture art movement that became popular <strong>Make a prediction</strong> The highlighted sentence includes the detour roadsign \"but,\" which indicates a contrast between the two clauses of the highlighted sentence. The correct answer will address the ironic contrast between Lichtenstein's attempt to distance himself from artistic expression and his burgeoning popularity in the art world. <strong>Evaluate the answer choices</strong> A paradox is an apparent contradiction, so <strong>(D)</strong> matches the prediction and is correct. (A) is incorrect. For this to be true, Lichtenstein would have had to seek fame in the art world by way of unconventional logic. However, the passage states that his rise to fame in the art world was an unintended outcome of his artistic satire. (B) is incorrect because the highlighted sentence helps describe the argument that Lichtenstein was making with his art and neither contradicts it nor, for that matter, endorses it. By saying that the artist had \"two goals,\" (C), like (A), implies that Lichtenstein intended to gain fame within the art world-as though his two goals were to parody established art and become famous. However, the passage does not say he had any goal other than to rebel against artistic norms. The passage says that the genre of pop art \"progressed,\" but it never suggests specifically that Lichtenstein's work changed, so (E) is incorrect. TAKEAWAY: When addressing the purpose of a specific sentence within a passage, make sure to understand what the rest of the passage is about since the correct answer will reflect the sentence's role in context."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::