::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240318

question: "When the great influenza pandemic of 1918-1919 struck, an estimated 675,000 Americans died. That was ten times the number of Americans who died in World War I, which was then coming to an end in Europe. Sometimes called the Spanish flu, this influenza, which initially seemed as benign as a common cold, would ultimately take approximately 50 million lives worldwide, killing more people than the bubonic plague had killed from 1347 to 1351. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that nearly one-third of the world's population was infected with the influenza virus, which was surprisingly virulent among the young and fit. Today, live samples of the 1918 virus and evolving RNA science give researchers a good picture of the structure of this flu strain, yet both the origin and cause of this catastrophic plague episode remain a mystery. The CDC's interpretation of the data is chilling; until the root causes of the 1918-1919 pandemic are understood thoroughly, \"analogous conditions could lead to an equally devastating pandemic.\" The author mentions that scientists have \"a good picture of the structure of this flu strain\" in order to"

answers: [
  'demonstrate how close scientists are to solving this medical mystery',
  'extol the progress science has made in tracing the origins of the 1918-1919 pandemic',
  'introduce a depiction of the appearance of the pathogen',
  'support the notion that a widespread health disaster such as the Spanish flu is unlikely in the future',
  'underscore how baffling outbreak of 1918 is'
]

explanation: "<strong>Analyze the question stem</strong> This is a Logic question, identified by the phrase \"in order to.\" <strong>Research</strong> Study the sentence in which the phrase appears, which includes the contrast keyword \"yet.\" The author concludes that despite this \"good picture,\" the \"origin and cause\" of this virus outbreak episode remain a mystery. <strong>Make a prediction</strong> The author uses this sentence to emphasize how difficult it is to understand how the pandemic came about. <strong>Evaluate the answer choices</strong> <strong>(E)</strong> matches the prediction and is correct. (A) is a 180 because the thrust of the passage is that basic issues surrounding the 1918-1919 spread of the virus remain a mystery. (B) is also a 180; if anything, this passage shows that scientists are far away from finding the pandemic's origins. (C) is incorrect because the phrase \"a good picture of the structure of this flu strain\" is being used metaphorically to describe the extent of modern scientists' knowledge of the virus, not literally to describe what the virus looks like. (D) is a 180 because, according to the author, the CDC believes such a viral pandemic could strike again. TAKEAWAY: When determining why the author included a particular portion of a passage, reading the surrounding parts is often helpful. Pay particular attention to keywords that relate the cited text to other ideas. <strong>Read the passage strategically</strong> Topic: Influenza pandemic of 1918-1919 Scope: Consequences and attempts to determine cause Purpose: Describe the history of this virus and warn of the dangers of another pandemic"

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::