::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231218

question: " The (i)_______ potential of a new company to (ii)_______ in an emerging and as yet unstructured market is often difficult for investors to discern as they (iii)_______ clues to its resilience and vitality."

answers: [
  'evident',
  'mature',
  'latent',
  'flourish',
  'succumb',
  'equilibrate',
  'circumvent',
  'capitulate to',
  'quest for'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> Paraphrase the first part of this sentence as <i>A new company's potential is hard for investors to discover</i>. Thus, they are interested in \"clues to its resilience and vitality,\" so they care about the health of the company. Since the sentence is discussing \"new\" companies with \"potential,\" their future health is not yet known. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> The investors are trying to \"discern\" the health of companies, so a good prediction for blank (iii) is that they \"want\" clues. Because investors want clues to a company's \"resilience and vitality,\" predict that what is difficult to discern is the company's potential to \"succeed\" or \"be healthy.\" How healthy a new company might someday be has yet to be discovered, to predict \"hidden\" for blank (i). <strong>Select the choice(s) that most closely match(es) your prediction</strong> The investors <strong>(I)</strong><i>quest for</i>, or \"seek,\" clues to the health of a new company. To (G) <i>circumvent</i> is \"to get around\" something, and the investors want the clues-they don't want to avoid them. To (H) <i>capitulate to</i> might have been tempting if you were thinking about the capital that investors provide to businesses, but <i>capitulate</i> means \"to surrender.\" The investors are interested in a company's potential to <strong>(D)</strong><i>flourish</i>, or \"thrive.\" (E) <i>succumb</i> means \"to give in,\" which is the opposite of what the investors are looking for. (F) <i>equilibrate</i> means \"to reach a state of balance.\" While a company might want to <i>equilibrate</i> in various ways (e.g., bring its risks and opportunities into balance), the context clues in this sentence point to a positive, not a neutral, word. The word <i>latent</i> in <strong>(C)</strong> means \"having the potential to develop but not evident now,\" and that's a match for the prediction. (A) <i>evident</i> is the opposite. (B) <i>mature</i> is also the opposite, since new companies are not <i>mature</i>. <strong>Check your answer</strong> The <i>latent </i>potential of a new company to <i>flourish </i>in an emerging and as yet unstructured market is often difficult for investors to discern as they <i>quest for</i> clues to its resilience and vitality. TAKEAWAY: Sometimes the clue to a blank can be in a different part of the sentence. Read the entire sentence before predicting for any of the blanks."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::