::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240325

question: " The relationship with space is of (i)_______ importance in dance. The dancer's body sculpts the space, forming a place for itself, while (ii)_______ creating a negative space, which is unoccupied. A reviewer, writing about the (iii)_______ dancer Hoyer, said that Hoyer could express what could not be communicated in film or photography; she could capture the space as her own."

answers: [
  'consequent',
  'fundamental',
  'malleable',
  'caustically',
  'deferentially',
  'synchronously',
  'adroit',
  'haughty',
  'munificent'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The clues to the first blank are the word \"importance,\" the fact that the sentence describes in detail how the dancer's body relates to and creates space, and the description in the third sentence of Hoyer, who could \"capture the space as her own,\" something that film and photography cannot do. Clearly, space is a big deal in dance, and the first word should reflect this. For the second blank, since the dancer seems to do two things - form a place for her body and create a negative space, a continuation word would fit well. Finally, because the reviewer appears to be complimenting Hoyer's dancing ability, a positive word is needed for the third blank. <strong>Predict the answers</strong> Based on the above, a good prediction for the first blank would be \"primary,\" while \"also\" would be good for the second blank and \"great\" would work for the third blank. Keep in mind, though, that for this question, the clues for the second and third blanks were more general. It seems clear that a continuation word would work for the second blank, but there are many that are suitable. Similarly, there are many positive words that would work for the third blank. Be flexible and go to the choices with the general predictions in mind. <strong>Select the best matches from among the choices</strong> <strong>(B)</strong> <i>fundamental</i>, or \"primary,\" is a perfect match for the first prediction and is the correct answer for the first blank. (A) <i>consequent</i>, or \"following as a result or effect,\" suggests a cause-and-effect relationship, which doesn't apply in this sentence. (C) <i>malleable</i> means \"capable of being shaped or changed,\" which also doesn't make sense in the context of the sentence. For the second blank, <strong>(F)</strong> <i>synchronously</i> means \"at the same time,\" and is the second correct choice. This word suggests continuation and is closest in meaning to the predicted word, \"also.\" To be \"caustic\" means to eat away at or to be bitter or sarcastic. None of these meanings fit the sentence, so (D) <i>caustically</i> is incorrect. (E) <i>deferentially</i> means \"respectfully and politely in a submissive way.\" This meaning isn't what the sentence requires, so eliminate (E). For the third blank, the positive word <strong>(G)</strong> <i>adroit</i>, or \"skillful,\" is the correct answer. (H) <i>haughty</i> means \"arrogant and condescending,\" which is too negative in tone to be correct. (I) <i>munificent</i>, meaning \"generous,\" is a positive word, but the reviewer doesn't give any reason to think this applies to Hoyer, so this choice can't be correct. <strong>Confirm your answers by reading them into the sentence</strong> The relationship with space is of <i>fundamental</i> importance in dance. The dancer's body sculpts the space, forming a place for itself, while <i>synchronously</i> creating a negative space, which is unoccupied. A reviewer, writing about the <i>adroid</i> dancer Hoyer, said that Hoyer could express what could not be communicated in film or photography; she could capture the space as her own. TAKEAWAY: If a specific prediction isn't possible, at least come up with a general prediction or determine whether the word should be positive or negative. Then, be flexible with the answer choices."

answerKey: [0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0]

---
::