::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240415

question: "Commercial entrepreneurs sometimes become celebrities, with their names known globally for the new ideas, processes, and products they have brought to market. Less well known - but with as great an impact - are social entrepreneurs. The desire of social entrepreneurs is to change society in some way. For example, John Muir, the founder of the Sierra Club, had a major impact on the way Americans view the natural environment. Today's social entrepreneurs bring energy and novel approaches to issues around the world, tackling seemingly intractable problems such as inadequate water supplies in rural communities, lack of vaccination against childhood diseases in developing nations, and the absence of hospitals in areas that badly need them. To succeed, social entrepreneurs need more than energy and ideas. They must also marshal charisma and conviction to persuade many people that changes are necessary, timely, and possible. This fact may explain why some social entrepreneurs start out as celebrities rather than becoming celebrities; their fame gives them an international platform from which to pitch their plans. In fact, among the best-known social entrepreneurs today are people who gained celebrity for their achievements as commercial entrepreneurs. Which of the following situations would the author likely consider most similar to the transition from celebrity commercial entrepreneur to social entrepreneur?"

answers: [
  "A homeowner plants trees by the house's western exposure to reduce next summer's air-conditioning costs.",
  'A guitarist applies her skills to learning to play banjo and electric bass.',
  "A college tutor reinforces his students' understanding of algebra to prepare them for a calculus course.",
  'A pastor encourages her congregation from the pulpit to commit to a voter registration project.',
  'A well-known actor weighs whether to run for public office.'
]

explanation: "<strong>Analyze the question stem</strong> This question asks for a situation analogous to celebrity commercial entrepreneurs becoming social entrepreneurs. <strong>Research</strong> The end of the passage discusses celebrities becoming social entrepreneurs: Social entrepreneurs need to be able to mobilize people and convince them of the necessity of their goal. Celebrity commercial entrepreneurs already have a platform from which to do those things, and this may help them become social entrepreneurs. <strong>Make a prediction</strong> The correct answer will present a situation that is analogous to a leader's using a platform gained from one enterprise to build support for another. <strong>Evaluate the answer choices</strong> <strong>(D)</strong> matches the prediction: a person uses her influence as a pastor to marshal support for an unrelated project. This is the correct answer.<br> In (A), no persuasion of others is involved. (B) includes the idea of applying previously acquired skills to new tasks, but the guitarist never influences anyone. In (C), the tutor uses his knowledge to influence the behavior of his students, but he does not have to try to persuade them to take a new course of action - they are already studying math. (E) involves a celebrity, but the actor doesn't apply his influence to help accomplish a project. TAKEAWAY: The correct answer to a Parallelism question will relate to a different topic from that in the passage but present analogous relationships between people or actions. <strong>Read the passage strategically</strong> Topic: Social entrepreneurs (SEs) Scope: Goals and characteristics of SEs Purpose: To explain what SEs do and the characteristics that make them successful"

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::