::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231119

question: "Facing far larger crowds than anticipated, the event staff reneged on their agreement with the original locale and moved the concert to a more _______ venue."

answers: [
  'commodious',
  'austere',
  'grandiloquent',
  'sanctioned',
  'egregious'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The word in the blank will describe the \"venue\" that the concert was moved to. The key phrase in this sentence, \"larger crowds than anticipated,\" indicates that the event needed to move to a bigger venue. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> Predict a word meaning \"large.\" <strong>Select the choice that most closely matches your prediction</strong> <strong>(A) </strong><i>commodious</i> means \"expansive\" or \"capacious\" and therefore matches the prediction. This might be an unfamiliar vocabulary word, so you may have to approach this question by eliminating the other choices. (B) <i>austere</i> means \"harshly simple\"; although this may describe a venue, it says nothing about the size, so it's incorrect. Although (C) <i>grandiloquent</i>, has <i>grand-</i> in it, the word actually refers to an extravagant or pompous manner of speaking as indicated by the ending <i>-loquent</i>, so it has nothing to do with size. (D) <i>sanctioned</i> means \"allowed\" or \"approved,\" and in an odd quirk of the English language, a <i>sanction</i> can also be a penalty. Neither of these two contrasting meanings implies anything about the size of the new venue, so this choice is wrong. (E) <i>egregious</i> means \"outstandingly bad.\" You may have heard the phrase <i>an egregious error</i>, meaning \"a serious mistake.\" The event's organizers would not knowingly move the concert to a terrible venue. <strong>Check your answer</strong> Facing far larger crowds than anticipated, the event staff reneged on their agreement with the original locale and moved the concert to a more <i>commodious</i> venue. TAKEAWAY: Word roots can be a great way to figure out the meanings of unknown words, but sometimes they can be misleading."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 0]

---
::