::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240706

question: " Having been chastised once for impropriety, the professor - now more cognizant of the sensibilities of her students - tried to refrain from mentioning topics that might be upsetting and used _______ language when those topics could not be avoided."

answers: [
  'delicate',
  'callous',
  'prolix',
  'verbose',
  'euphemistic',
  'elucidatory'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> In this sentence, the phrase \"having been\" is a straight-ahead roadsign that indicates a logical succession of ideas in the sentence. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> Because the professor had been reprimanded for being offensive, she must subsequently have used language she hoped would be inoffensive or language that would soften unavoidable but potentially upsetting topics. <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> <strong>(A) </strong><i>delicate</i>, \"considerate of others' feelings,\" and <strong>(E) </strong><i>euphemistic</i>, \"substituting a mild or indirect term for a blunt or offensive one,\" match this prediction; both choices describe language meant to present potentially offensive material in an inoffensive way. These are the correct answers. (B) <i>callous</i> means \"insensitive,\" so it is the exact opposite of the prediction and is therefore incorrect. (C) <i>prolix</i> and (D) <i>verbose</i> mean \"excessively wordy,\" which would not make offensive topics sound less offensive, so both are incorrect. (F) <i>elucidatory</i> is incorrect because it means \"clarifying,\" which also would not make an offensive topic seem less offensive. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> Having been chastised once for impropriety, the professor - now more cognizant of the sensibilities of her students - tried to refrain from mentioning topics that might be upsetting and used <i>delicate/euphemistic</i> language when those topics could not be avoided. TAKEAWAY: A common wrong answer trap is a pair of synonyms with the wrong meaning."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::