::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231224

question: " Disagreement over the appropriate use of force has been one of the consistent issues in international relations over time; therefore, it may be presumptuous to suggest that current international disagreements over the use of force are _______."

answers: [
  'spurious',
  'unique',
  'relevant',
  'perennial',
  'irresolvable'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The first part of the sentence, up to the semicolon, suggests that disagreement over the appropriate use of force has been a constant issue in international relations that has recurred over time. The keyword \"therefore,\" which begins the second part of the sentence, indicates that the second part will be the conclusion drawn from the first. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> Since the second part of the sentence describes an unlikely way to describe these types of disagreements, a good prediction would be something like \"unusual\", since the sentence says these have bee happening for a long time. <strong>Select the choice that most closely matches your prediction</strong> <strong>(B)</strong><i> unique </i>fits the bill: if disagreements occur consistently, then it is presumptuous to suggest that they are<i> unique</i>. This is the correct answer. (A)<i> spurious</i> means \"false\" or \"illegitimate\"; the first part of the sentence suggests only that such disagreements have happened in the past, not whether they were legitimate or not.<strong></strong>(C)<i> relevant </i>doesn't work; the first part of the sentence doesn't say anything about the relevance of the disagreements. If anything, the fact that disputes occur repeatedly might indicate that they are <i>relevant</i>. (D)<i> perennial </i>is a trap answer; the first part of the sentence states that disagreement over the appropriate use of force is in fact a consistent, or <i>perennial</i>, issue, but the second part states that it would be presumptuous to think that that is the case.<strong></strong>(E) <i>irresolvable </i>makes a statement about disagreements that isn't supported by the sentence. <strong>Check your answer</strong> Disagreement over the appropriate use of force has been one of the consistent issues in international relations over time; therefore, it may be presumptuous to suggest that current international disagreements over the use of force are <i>unique</i>. TAKEAWAY: Make sure you keep an eye out for more subtle detour roadsigns like the one here; if you don't notice them, you'd likely pick a word that means the exact opposite of the actual right answer."

answerKey: [0, 1, 0, 0, 0]

---
::