::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240608

question: " The intolerable heat of the fierce tropical sun, seeping through the heavy, damp air, rapidly reduced even the most industrious and diligent of the work crews to a state of stupefied (i)_______ and rendered the project manager's (ii)_______ futile, despite the imminent deadline."

answers: [
  'somnolence',
  'invective',
  'alacrity',
  'verbosity',
  'admonitions',
  'puerility'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> Context helps with the prediction for the first blank. The crews-effective, hard-working groups-were \"reduced\" to a different state by heat and humidity. The correct choice will be a word that has the opposite meaning of \"industrious and diligent.\"<br> The second blank is a word for the project manager's response to the \"stupefied\" workers, which the context clue \"futile\" indicates was unsuccessful. <strong>Predict the answer</strong> \"Lazy,\" or any word that indicates a state that is the opposite of a \"diligent\" one, is a good prediction for the first blank. A project manager faced with a lazy crew and a deadline would likely \"encourage\" or \"urge\" the crew to work. Either of these words is a good prediction for the second blank. <strong>Select the answer choices that most closely match your predictions </strong> <strong>(A) </strong><i>somnolence</i>, meaning \"sleepiness\" or \"drowsiness,\" matches the prediction and is the first correct answer. (B) <i>invective</i>, meaning \"insult or abuse,\" does not fit; the workers might have hurled <i>invective</i> at the bad weather, or the supervisor might have hurled <i>invective</i> at the workers, but it's not correct to say the workers were in a state of <i>invective</i>.<strong></strong>(C) <i>alacrity</i>, meaning \"speed\" or \"rapidity,\" is the opposite of the prediction and is also incorrect.<br> <strong>(E)</strong> <i>admonitions</i>, \"criticisms or warnings about behavior,\" matches the prediction and is the second correct answer. (D) <i>verbosity</i>, meaning \"wordiness,\" is not supported since the manager might have used very few words (e.g., \"Work harder, or else!\"). (F) <i>puerility</i> means \"silliness\" or \"childishness.\" there is no clue in the sentence that supports the idea that the project manager behaved childishly, so (F) is incorrect. <strong>Check your answer</strong> The intolerable heat of the fierce tropical sun, seeping through the heavy, damp air, rapidly reduced even the most industrious and diligent of the work crews to a state of stupefied <i>somnolence </i>and rendered the project manager's <i>admonitions </i>futile, despite the imminent deadline.<br> TAKEAWAY: If there is no clue in the sentence that supports the choice, then by definition, the choice is incorrect."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::