::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240405

question: " The play's protagonist is a young prince regent whose capacity to govern his realm justly and competently is hindered by a (i)_______ of self-serving (ii)_______ who act in concert, praising him to his face but all the while undercutting his edicts and maligning his intentions in clandestine meetings with other members of his court."

answers: [
  'coterie',
  'largesse',
  'celerity',
  'philanthropists',
  'sycophants',
  'recidivists'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The blanks both describe people who are \"self-serving\" rather than serving the interests of the prince regent. They say nice things about him when he is around, but they \"undercut\" his edicts and engage in \"clandestine meetings,\" so they are acting against his interests in less obvious and even secret ways. <strong>Predict the answer</strong> There is more than one of these \"self-serving\" folks pestering the prince, and they are in league with each other, as they are \"acting in concert.\" The right answer will be a noun that means \"a closely knit group.\" The second blank will be something that means \"people who are only interested in their own well-being.\" <strong>Select the answer choices that most closely match your predictions</strong> <strong>(A) </strong><i>coterie</i>, \"a tightly bound group of people working for a common goal,\" matches the prediction and is the first correct answer. (B) <i>largesse</i>, or \"generosity with finances,\" and (C) <i>celerity</i>, or \"rapidity in motion or action,\" are both incorrect because neither describes a group of people. <strong>(E) </strong><i>sycophants</i> means \"flatterers\" and describes people who feign friendship and aid to achieve their own purposes. This is the second correct answer. (D) <i>philanthropist</i> means \"humanitarian,\" which is much too positive to fit. (F) <i>recidivists</i> means \"people who return to bad behavior\"; while the word for blank (ii) does describe ill-behaved people, there is no indication in the sentence that there has been previous bad behavior, followed by improvement, followed by a relapse to the earlier bad behavior. <strong>Check your answer</strong> The play's protagonist is a young prince regent whose capacity to govern his realm justly and competently is hindered by a <i>coterie</i> of self-serving <i>sycophants</i> who act in concert, praising him to his face but all the while undercutting his edicts and maligning his intentions in clandestine meetings with other members of his court. TAKEAWAY: It's sometimes enough to predict that a word is positive or negative, but if more than one choice fits, select the answer that fits all the clues in the sentence."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::