::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240626

question: "The concept of a true constructivist education, as envisioned by Piaget, Vygotsky, and Bruner, is an attractive goal. A renewed focus on experiential and project-based learning that focuses on activity rather than memorization and drilling is evident in curricula, national standards, and the missions of many primary and secondary schools. Some argue that a constructivist learning approach leads to an unregulated melee of classroom activity that results in wildly varying knowledge bases and skill sets. However, this overlooks the fact that the pursuit of profound knowledge through unconventional means is the ultimate goal in higher education. In conventional education, students are asked to master specifically delineated content associated with their age-determined grade, but students never truly \"learn how to learn.\" In many cases, students who learn to flourish as passive learners agonize when challenged by open-ended project tasks and assessments or other assignments that lack boundaries. Beneficiaries of a constructivist education are better equipped than conventionally trained students to thrive in these situations. The author would most likely agree with which statement about students who learn in a constructivist environment?"

answers: [
  'They are more likely than other students to earn high scores on assessments that test a broad knowledge base.',
  'They adapt more easily to a variety of learning tasks than do other students.',
  'They will be successful in the working world when they grow up.',
  'They are unlikely to demonstrate self-control or good behavior.',
  'They require constant activity in the classroom to master content.'
]

explanation: "<strong>Analyze the question stem</strong> This is an Inference question. It asks for a reasonable conclusion about students with which the author of the passage would likely agree. <strong>Research</strong> The author devotes the first half of the passage to a discussion of constructivist education and other people's opinions of it. Then with \"However,\" the author begins to assert a strongly positive view of this type of education and proceeds to illustrate this view by contrasting the two types of students produced by the different modes of education. The last sentence describes the beneficiaries of a constructivist education. <strong>Make a prediction</strong> Base the prediction on the last sentence of the passage: these students do well at tasks that are unfamiliar or not well defined. <strong>Evaluate the answer choices</strong> <strong>(B)</strong> matches the prediction, essentially paraphrasing the comparison made in the last two sentences of the passage. (A) gives a positive but ultimately unsupported view of these students. In fact, the passage says these students may have \"wildly varying knowledge bases and skill sets,\" suggesting that they may actually not do well on assessments that test a broad base of knowledge. This view is put forward by other people but is never actually refuted by the author, who claims other, offsetting benefits of constructivist education. (C) is also positive, but it is not supported by the passage. The author implies that these students will do well in higher education but says nothing about the working world. (D) is based on a misreading of the description \"unregulated melee of classroom activity.\" That melee does not suggest that these students do not know how to behave, but that the process of learning can look messy and disorganized. (E) suffers from a similar misreading and misapplication of this section of the passage. Constant activity is not a necessary condition for all student learning; it is simply part of the constructivist method. The passage never states that these students \"require\" such \"constant\" activity. TAKEAWAY: Be wary of answer choices that appeal to a misapplication of content from the passage, especially if they stand in stark contrast to the author's tone. <strong>Read the passage strategically</strong> Topic: Constructivist education Scope: Value of constructivist education Purpose: To argue that the pros outweigh one potential con of instituting this type of education"

answerKey: [0, 1, 0, 0, 0]

---
::