::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240308

question: " Who is the true \"Father of Aviation\"? The answer depends on both the criteria one uses to define flight and on the credit one is willing to give to those who laid the foundation for it. Brazilians point to their own Alberto Santos Dumont, who, in 1906, after becoming a world-famous pilot of balloons and dirigibles, was the first to take off in, fly, and land a motor-driven airplane without the use of wind power. To most Americans, the answer seems obvious: Orville and Wilbur Wright flew three years prior in 1903 at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, albeit with the assistance of that coastal area's strong and steady winds. A definitive answer may never be reached, as nationalism sometimes sways opinion. Germans argue in favor of Otto Lilenthal, considered the first hang glider pilot, who made hundreds of flights before his death in 1896. The Montgolfiers of France popularized balloon flights in the late eighteenth century. Their compatriot, Henri Giffard, flew a dirigible powered by a steam engine in 1852. And what of supposed earlier attempts made by preindustrial or even Stone Age cultures? Little or no record has been left of any such attempts, perhaps precluding the possibility of assigning proper credit to who may have actually been the \"Father of Aviation.\" The primary purpose of the passage is to"

answers: [
  'propose further investigation into a mystery',
  'discuss various opinions about a controversy',
  'present two hypotheses concerning the origins of flight',
  'describe reasons why the origins of flight are mysterious',
  'argue that the first aviator may have predated the steam engine'
]

explanation: "<strong>Analyze the question stem</strong> This is a Global question that asks about the primary purpose of the passage. <strong>Research</strong> Look to your passage map for the author's purpose: it's to present the bases of five different possibilities for the \"Father of Aviation.\" The passage is descriptive rather than argumentative. <strong>Make a prediction</strong> Predict that the correct choice will be a discussion of the various candidates for the honor as cited by their proponents. <strong>Evaluate the answer choices</strong> <strong>(B)</strong> matches the prediction and is correct. In (A), while the author does suggest that the true \"Father of Aviation\" may remain a mystery, she doesn't propose any further investigation into it. (C) is too narrow. The author presents multiple options regarding the origins of aviation. For (D), the origins of flight are not \"mysterious.\" This is a distortion since the controversy is about the honorific title, not the origins of flight itself. (E) can be eliminated because of the use of the verb \"argue,\" which is contrary to the author's tone. TAKEAWAY: Questions that ask for the overall purpose of a passage can be researched quickly by referring to your notes on topic, scope, and purpose. <strong>Read the passage strategically</strong> Topic: \"Father of Aviation\" Scope: Competing claims for the title Purpose: To describe five different claims"

answerKey: [0, 1, 0, 0, 0]

---
::