::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231005

question: "In the early part of the twentieth century, women who desired to pursue professional careers rather than work as homemakers were regarded as _______, even aberrant."

answers: [
  'intrepid',
  'volatile',
  'inflexible',
  'blameworthy',
  'eccentric'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The blank is followed by a short phrase beginning with \"even\"; this indicates that this phrase-\"even aberrant\"-is continuing and intensifying the meaning of the word that precedes it. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> So, look for a negatively charged word that has a meaning similar to and less extreme than \"aberrant\" (deviating from the norm). <strong>Select the choice that most closely matches your prediction</strong> <strong>(E) </strong><i>eccentric </i>means \"departing from convention\"; since it is a less extreme version of \"aberrant\", it is therefore the correct answer. (A) <i>intrepid</i>, meaning \"fearless,\" has a positive charge, and therefore is not correct. (B) <i>volatile</i>, or \"inconstant\", does not match the prediction. (C) <i>inflexible</i>, or \"incapable of change\",<i></i>does not work in the sentence's context; the women described by the sentence seem to want to change. (D) <i>blameworthy </i>has the requisite negative word charge, but its meaning is not similar to \"aberrant\"; it's too general. <strong>Check your answer</strong> In the early part of the twentieth century, women who desired to pursue professional careers rather than work as homemakers were regarded as <i>eccentric</i>, even aberrant. TAKEAWAY: Sometimes, predicting just the word charge isn't enough; a generally negative word isn't correct if there's support for a more specific meaning."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::