::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240712

question: " People expect that their elected officials will not be _______ representatives; it is common knowledge that politicians always have their own interests at heart."

answers: [
  'rational',
  'competent',
  'flexible',
  'disinterested',
  'diligent'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The semicolon in this sentence acts as a straight-ahead roadsign, so the second part of the sentence will mirror the sentiment of the first. According to the second part, people know that politicians are self-interested. Therefore, the first part of the sentence must also be saying that people expect their elected officials to be biased. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> The \"not\" before the blank means the correct answer will mean \"unbiased\" or \"impartial.\" <strong>Select the best match from among the choices</strong> <strong>(D)</strong> <i>disinterested</i>, or \"impartial,\" fits the prediction perfectly and is correct. (A) <i>rational,</i> meaning \"having reason or understanding,\" is incorrect because the fact that politicians are self-interested doesn't mean they won't use reason in representing their constituents. (B) <i>competent</i> does not align with the clues. The politicians may use their offices to benefit themselves, but that doesn't imply they won't be competent at doing so. (C) <i>flexible</i> in this context would mean \"yielding to influence.\" If anything, politicians are too flexible according to this author, as they will take actions that benefit themselves rather than adhering to principles. (E) <i>diligent</i>, like (B), is not supported by the clues. This word means \"hardworking, persistent,\" and nothing indicates that the politicians are lazy. <strong>Confirm your answer by reading it into the sentence</strong> People expect that their elected officials will not be <i>disinterested</i> representatives; it is considered common knowledge that politicians always have their own interests at heart. TAKEAWAY: Don't overlook small words such as <i>not</i>. These little detour roadsigns can completely change the meaning of the blank."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::