::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231216

question: " Benjamin Franklin, who dispensed advice under the pen name Poor Richard, famously extolled the importance of personal thrift, avowing that it is a virtue to be (i) _______. Franklin, who likewise placed high value on benevolence, would likely have considered it a vice to be (ii) _______."

answers: [
  'wealthy',
  'stingy',
  'frugal',
  'charitable',
  'uncharitable',
  'impoverished'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> While there are no major roadsigns to look out for, the first sentence defines the word that should be in the blank. 'Extolling the importance of personal thrift' means that Franklin believes \"thrift\" is a \"virtue\", or a good thing. <strong>Predict the answers</strong> Use the clue directly from the sentence and predict \"thrift\" for the first blank. The second sentence provides another defining phrase, \"high value on benevolence,\" but this time the word \"vice\" requires a prediction that is the opposite of \"benevolence.\" A good prediction is \"stingy.\" <strong>Select the answer choices that most closely match your predictions</strong> <strong>(C)</strong> <i>frugal</i> is defined as \"being careful in how money is spent,\" which perfectly aligns with the prediction. (A) <i>wealthy</i> means \"having lots of money,\" and, while a wealthy person could be thrifty, they certainly do not mean the same thing. (B) <i>stingy</i>, which means \"not generous,\" has a far too negative tone to match the clues. <strong>(E)</strong> <i>uncharitable </i>matches the prediction. The prefix \"un-\" gives it the opposite meaning of (D) <i>charitable</i>, which means \"generous.\" (F) <i>impoverished</i> means \"poor\" and does not fit the context of this blank. <strong>Check your answers</strong> Benjamin Franklin, who dispensed advice under the pen name Poor Richard, famously extolled the importance of personal thrift, avowing that it is a virtue to be (i) <i>frugal</i>. Franklin, who likewise placed high value on benevolence, would likely have considered it a vice to be (ii) <i>uncharitable</i>. TAKEAWAY: Read carefully to avoid applying an answer choice to the wrong blank. This is the especially the case for two-blank Text Completions where the blanks have opposite meanings."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0]

---
::