::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240326

question: " In (i)_______ of his (ii)_______ personality, we knew we could trust him; regardless of his daunting appearance and checkered past, deceit was simply not a part of his character."

answers: [
  'defense',
  'light',
  'lieu',
  'artless',
  'affected',
  'guileful'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> In this sentence, it might be better to attack the second blank first, because it requires an adjective describing the subject's personality and the description of his personality is clearly described in the rest of the sentence: he's trustworthy in spite of his \"checkered past\" because he lacks the ability to deceive. The narrator's assertion that \"we knew we could trust him\" indicates that the first blank must be consistent with the subject's open nature, <strong>Predict the answer</strong> For the first blank, predict an answer that means \"open\" or \"honest\" in personality. The second will be a straight-ahead roadsign that means something like \"because.\" <strong>Select the answer choices that most closely match your predictions</strong> Although<strong> (D) </strong><i>artless</i> can mean \"lacking skill or knowledge,\" which wouldn't fit, it can also mean \"honest\" or \"free from deceit,\" so it's the right answer for the second blank. If you didn't know that definition, you could have gotten to the right answer by eliminating the others. An (E) <i>affected</i> personality would be one that is not genuine, and a (F) <i>guileful</i> personality is a \"deceitful\" one. Since both have meanings relating to deception or artificiality, they'r the opposite of what's needed. <strong>(B) </strong><i>light</i> in the phrase \"in light of\" means \"due to\" or \"because of\" and matches the prediction. (A) <i>defense</i> suggests that there is a critique of the subject's personality, and this is not supported by the sentence. (C) <i>lieu</i> means \"instead\" or \"in place,\" which is the opposite of the prediction. <strong>Check your answer</strong> In <i>light</i> of his <i>artless</i> personality, we knew we could trust him; regardless of his daunting appearance and checkered past, deceit was simply not a part of his character. TAKEAWAY: When a choice has more than one possible meaning, it's right if only one of those meanings fits the sentence."

answerKey: [0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0]

---
::