::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240220

question: " When many of Dr. Snyder's peers were quick to point out a rather (i)_______ error in her calculations, she retreated into the solitude of the lab to (ii)_______ amending her theory."

answers: [
  'salient',
  'nugatory',
  'equivocal',
  'eschew',
  'ruminate over',
  'defer'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> In this sentence \"when\" is functioning as a cause-and-effect keyword relating the two blanks to each other. The error her peers found was serious enough that Dr. Snyder \"retreated\" to her lab to consider correcting her theory. <strong>Predict the answer</strong> An \"important\" or \"significant\" error would be cause for revision, and any word with this meaning is a good prediction for the first blank. The context clues \"error\" and \"amending\" indicate Dr. Snyder recognizes her theory needs work, so she will likely \"consider\", \"think about,\" or \"begin to\" make the necessary changes. Any word indicating her revision is going forward is a good prediction for the second blank. <strong>Select the answer choices that most closely match your predictions </strong> <strong>(A) </strong><i>salient</i>, meaning \"of notable significance\" or \"prominence,\" is a match to the prediction and the correct answer. (B) <i>nugatory</i> means \"trifling\" or \"inconsquential,\" which is the opposite of the idea that is needed and is incorrect. (C) <i>equivocal</i> means \"uncertain\" or \"ambivalent\" and is incorrect. Peoples' opinions about Dr. Snyder's theory may be equivocal, but an error can't be.<br> <strong>(E) </strong><i>ruminate</i>, meaning \"think about\" or \"ponder,\" matches the prediction and is correct. (D) <i>eschew</i> means to shun or turn away from. It is the opposite of the prediction and is incorrect. (F) <i>defer</i> means \"put off\" or \"yield,\" and this is another opposite choice; Dr. Snyder wants to fix the error.<br> <strong>Check your answer </strong> When many of Dr. Snyder's peers were quick to point out a rather <i>salient</i> error in her calculations, she retreated to the solitude of the lab to <i>ruminate over</i> amending her theory.<br> TAKEAWAY: Use the relationship between the blanks to predict."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::