::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231001

question: "Due to the low voter turnout, reporters described the storm's effect as _______ to the candidate's campaign for mayor, which depended on a grassroots voter registration drive."

answers: [
  'harmful',
  'benign',
  'inconsequential',
  'calamitous',
  'deleterious',
  'beneficial'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The sentence starts off with a clue, \"due to.\" That means the low voter turnout caused by the storm is the key here. It was something the reporters felt affected the campaign. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> Low voter turnout caused by a storm doesn't sound like something good for a campaign that is trying to get people to go out and vote for its candidate. It can predicted, therefore, that storm's effect was damaging to the campaign. <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> <strong>(A) </strong><i>harmful</i> and <strong>(E)</strong><i>deleterious</i> are synonyms that match the prediction and are the correct answers. (D) <i>calamitous</i> is the only other negative word in the choices, but it means \"catastrophic,\" which is too strong for this sentence. Low voter turnout may not be a good thing, but there is nothing in the sentence to suggest that it is disastrous. There is also no other word in the choices with such an extreme meaning. (B) <i>benign</i> and (C) <i>inconsequential</i> are similar, neutral words that mean \"not harmful\" and \"not significant,\" respectively. They don't make sense here, as reporters would not go out of their way to comment on an event that had no real effect on the campaigns. Finally, (F) <i>beneficial</i> is a positive word meaning \"helpful.\" This sentence requires negative words. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> Due to the low voter turnout, reporters described the storm's effect as <i>harmful</i>/<i>deleterious</i> to the candidate's campaign for mayor, which depended on a grassroots voter registration drive. TAKEAWAY: Don't forget to use the choices for clues. If it wasn't exactly clear from the sentence how bad the low voter turnout would be for the campaign, the choices contained only one highly negatively charged word, in (D), while there are two moderately negative words."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::