::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240213

question: " Despite the study's indisputable theoretical importance, the research conducted was (i)_______ at best, and it is thus important to keep in mind that the results obtained are quite likely to be unsubstantiated, if not downright (ii)_______."

answers: [
  'cursory',
  'frivolous',
  'bogus',
  'redacted',
  'specious',
  'disingenuous'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The detour roadsign \"despite\" indicates a contrast between the first phrase and the clause that follows. The sentence opens by saying that the study has \"theoretical importance.\" The blanks describe the research itself and results of the study, respectively. Thus, the research and results must contrast with what would be expected from an important study. The results, specifically, are \"unsubstantiated,\" meaning not supported by facts. <strong>Predict the answer</strong> Based on these clues, predict that the first blank will describe the research as \"inadequate.\" For the second blank, the correct answer will be a word similar to but more extreme than \"unsubstantiated.\" <strong>Select the answer choices that most closely match your predictions</strong> <strong>(A)</strong> <i>cursory</i>, meaning \"hasty or superficial,\" matches the prediction and is the first correct answer. (B) <i>frivolous</i>, meaning either \"lighthearted\" or \"unimportant,\" doesn't quite fit. Nothing speaks to the mood of the researchers as they conducted the study, and the research is important; the issue is that it was done in a careless way that did not produce valid results. (C) <i>bogus</i> means \"false or intentionally faked,\" and nothing in the sentence indicates that the research was fabricated, so this choice is likewise incorrect. <strong>(E)</strong> <i>specious</i> means \"false\" or \"baseless,\" so it is the second correct answer. (F) <i>disingenuous</i> also can mean \"false,\" but unlike <i>specious</i>, it implies deliberate trickery, which is not supported. (D) <i>redacted</i> means \"edited\" and implies the removal of information. The context of the sentence indicates that the results are based on inadequate information, not that information has been removed. Thus, (D) is also incorrect. <strong>Check your answer</strong> Despite the study's undisputed theoretical importance, the research conducted was <i>cursory</i> at best, and it is thus important to keep in mind that the results obtained are quite likely to be unsubstantiated, if not downright <i>specious</i>. TAKEAWAY: Even if a negative word is needed, make sure not to pick one that is too negative to fit the context clues."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::