::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240802

question: " Of every 100 high school or college graduates in state M in 1990, approximately how many graduated from college?"

answers: [
  '4',
  '13',
  '21',
  '33',
  '43'
]

explanation: "Approach strategically \"Of every 100\" indicates a percentage value, so the stem is really asking, \"Approximately what percentage of graduates in 1990 graduated from college? \" Get the numbers to answer this question from the line graph. Note the word \"approximately\" in the question and the fact that the choices are pretty far apart and be prepared to estimate the answer instead of calculating it exactly. Note from the line graph that about 9.5 hundred thousand total students graduated in 1990. That figure, \"9.5 hundred thousand,\" can be awkward to think about. Since all the numbers you'll work with from the graph will be in hundred thousands, you can choose to ignore the units and just write 9.5. If you're uncomfortable doing that, consider abbreviating \"hundred thousand\" as, say, ht, and write \"9.5 ht.\" The graph also says 2 ht college students graduated in 1990. The approximate percentage of graduates in 1990 who graduated from college was thus ⎛ ⎝ 2 ht <svg style=\"width: 1.078em; height: 0.914em;\"><g fill=\"none\" stroke=\"black\" stroke-width=\"1.05\"><line x1=\"1\" y1=\"16.506000000000004\" x2=\"19.65\" y2=\"1.05\"></line></g></svg> 9 . 5 ht <svg style=\"width: 1.078em; height: 0.914em;\"><g fill=\"none\" stroke=\"black\" stroke-width=\"1.05\"><line x1=\"1\" y1=\"16.506000000000004\" x2=\"19.65\" y2=\"1.05\"></line></g></svg> ⎞ ⎠ ⎛ ⎝ 100 % ⎞ ⎠ . <para>The fraction 2 9 . 5 is close to 21%, which is choice (C).</para> TAKEAWAY: Paraphrasing the question stem can help you to understand what it is really asking. <strong>Analyze the graphs</strong> The line graph shows the numbers, in hundreds of thousands, of graduating high school and college students, and total such students, in state <i>M</i> for consecutive years from 1982 to 1990. The circle graph shows the percentages of high school and college students graduating by school in state <i>M </i>during the year 1991."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 0, 0]

---
::