::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240524

question: " The aftermath of the explosion aboard the submarine produced mutual (i) _______; the navy blamed the (ii) _______ of the crew, while the sailors' families alleged that the vessel had been inadequately (iii) _______."

answers: [
  'accolades',
  'reparations',
  'recriminations',
  'diligence',
  'incompetence',
  'acrimony',
  'equipped',
  'exonerated',
  'emended'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The semicolon serves as a straight-ahead roadsign, indicating that the second part of the sentence is an illustration of the first part. An explosion aboard a submarine is a negative event, and the second part of the sentence points out that the two parties, the navy and the sailors' families, are placing blame. The detour roadsign \"while\" provides the clue that each side is blaming the other party for the explosion. <strong>Predict the answers</strong> There are enough clues to predict for these blanks in order. Each party is accusing the other of being at fault, so \"accusations\" works well as a prediction for the first blank. What could the navy accuse the sailors of that would have led to the explosion? This is the question that the second blank needs to answer. A good prediction for the second blank is \"lack of skill or ability.\" The third blank is the sailors' families opportunity to play the blame game. What could have been \"inadequate\" on the vessel and led to the explosion? \"Equipment\" works as a good prediction for this blank. <strong>Select the choices that most closely match your predictions</strong> <strong>(C)</strong><i> recriminations</i> is the best fit for the blank (i) prediction since it means \"accusations.\" (A) <i>accolades</i>, which means \"awards,\" is far to positive for the context of this sentence. (B) <i>reparations</i> is related to blame, but it specifically means \"making amends for a wrong\" and that does not match the prediction. <strong>(E) </strong><i>incompetence</i>, which means<i></i>\"lack of ability to do something well,\" is a nice fit for the blank two prediction. (D) <i>diligence</i>, which means \"energetic effort,\" has a positive connotation that does not match the clues. (F) <i>acrimony</i> definitely has a negative connotation, but it means \"anger and bitterness\" and does not match the prediction. <strong>(G) </strong><i>equipped</i>, which means \"to provide something with the necessary supplies,\" matches the blank three prediction perfectly. (H) <i>exonerated</i> means \"relieved of responsibility\" and makes no sense in this context. (I) <i>emended</i> is incorrect because it specifically refers to \"correcting errors in a written document,\" which does not fit the context. <strong>Check your answers</strong> The aftermath of the explosion aboard the submarine produced mutual (i) <i>recriminations</i>; the navy blamed the (ii) <i>incompetence </i>of the crew, while the sailors' families alleged that the vessel had been inadequately (iii) <i>equipped</i>. TAKEAWAY: Semicolons are powerful straight-ahead roadsigns. They indicate a continuation of thought and are often followed by an example. This provides a good opportunity to use tone to eliminate incorrect answers."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0]

---
::