::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231126

question: "The modern detective novel (i)_______ earlier Gothic fiction, which emphasized the uncanny, when nineteenth-century authors began to propose (ii)_______ rather than supernatural explanations for seemingly (iii)_______ occurrences."

answers: [
  'became more popular than',
  'lost readers to',
  'evolved from',
  'complex',
  'literary',
  'rational',
  'everyday',
  'mundane',
  'mysterious'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The first blank will relate \"the modern detective novel\" to \"Gothic fiction.\" You'll need a bit more information before you can predict this relationship, so come back to it. The phrase \"rather than supernatural explanations\" is a clue for the second blank; the detour roadsign \"rather than\" means that the word in the blank means \"not supernatural.\" As for the third blank, supernatural causes had been blamed for these occurrences, so they must be of a type that \"does not seem normal.\" Now, you can see the relationship indicated by the first blank; the two types of novels dealt with similar occurrences but used different rationales. Gothic novels tended to the supernatural, while detective novels were the opposite. This indicates a change. <strong>Predict the answers</strong> A good prediction for the first blank would be that the modern novel \"grew out of\" the Gothic novel. The second blank will be something opposed to \"supernatural.\" The third blank describes occurrences that appeared supernatural, so predict something like \"paranormal.\" <strong>Select the best matches from among the choices</strong> For the first blank, the best match for the prediction is <strong>(C) </strong><i>evolved from</i>, which indicates the predicted change. Neither (A) <i>became more popular than</i> nor (B) <i>lost readers to</i> is supported by the text. For the second blank, <strong>(F) </strong><i>rational</i>, meaning \"logical\" or \"scientific,\" matches the prediction of \"not supernatural.\" Neither (D) <i>complex</i>, meaning \"complicated,\" nor (E) <i>literary</i>, meaning \"concerning literature,\" makes sense in context. For the third blank, something that was <strong>(I) </strong><i>mysterious</i> would not seem normal. (G) <i>everyday</i>, or \"routine,\" and (H) <i>mundane</i>, or \"ordinary,\" are the opposite of the prediction. Furthermore, they're synonymous in this context, so they can be eliminated on that basis even without the prediction. <strong>Confirm your answer by reading it into the sentence</strong> The modern detective novel <i>evolved from</i> earlier Gothic fiction, which emphasized the uncanny, when nineteenth-century authors began to propose <i>rational</i> rather than supernatural explanations for seemingly <i>mysterious</i> occurrences. TAKEAWAY: When two synonyms appear in the choices for the same blank, they can both be eliminated, since there's no way to pick one over the other."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1]

---
::