::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240502

question: " Ingenuously, the young child made _______ statements, startling the adults with her unwitting insights."

answers: [
  'hapless',
  'farcical',
  'whimsical',
  'incisive',
  'irascible'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The word \"startling\" is a detour roadsign indicating a contrast between what one would expect a young child to say and the \"insights\" actually uttered. Thus, although the child is speaking \"ingenuously\" (\"without self-consciousness,\" \"innocently,\" or \"naturally\") and \"unwitting[ly]\" (\"without awareness\"), she is unknowingly saying things that make a lot of sense. The blank describes these statements. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> The right answer will be something like \"insightful.\" <strong>Select the choice that most closely matches your prediction</strong> <strong>(D)</strong><i>incisive</i> can refer to a \"sharp\" or \"clear\" remark, and when applied to what someone says, often describes an astute analysis. This word fits the sentence. (A) <i>hapless </i>means \"luckless.\" This is negative, so eliminate it. (B) <i>farcical</i> means \"laughably inept\"; such remarks would not be described as \"insightful.\" Although (C) <i>whimsical</i>, or \"prone to fanciful changes,\" is often associated with children, no clues in the sentence support this choice. If the child made (E) <i>irascible</i>, or \"angry,\" comments, she might have startled the adults, but the sentence says nothing about the child's mood or the tone of her statements. <strong>Check your answer</strong> Ingenuously, the young child made <i>incisive </i>statements, startling the adults with her unwitting insights.<br> TAKEAWAY: If there's an unfamiliar word in the sentence, see if there are enough other clues to help predict the meaning of the blank."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::