::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231120

question: "Because she was famed for her objectivity and temperate attitude, the _______ offered by the news anchor at the protest rally seemed especially uncharacteristic."

answers: [
  'account',
  'accolades',
  'invective',
  'diatribe',
  'perspective',
  'insinuations'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> This sentence points out a contrast between the news anchor's usual \"objectivity\" and \"temperate attitude\" on the one hand and her \"uncharacteristic\" behavior on the other. This second behavior is represented by the word in the blank. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> Since the behavior is contrasted with being objective and temperate, predict something like \"subjective and extreme.\" <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> <strong>(C)</strong> <i>invective</i> and <strong>(D)</strong> <i>diatribe</i> both mean \"abusive speech\" and fit well with the prediction. These are the correct answers. (A) <i>account</i> and (E) <i>perspective</i> are too neutral. They don't maintain the contrast set up in this sentence. (B) <i>accolades</i> are positive, so this word doesn't match the prediction. (F) <i>insinuations</i> are implications, typically negative ones. This would fit in the sentence, but there is no other word among the choices that would create a sentence similar in meaning. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> Because she was famed for her objectivity and temperate attitude, the <i>invective/diatribe</i> offered by the news anchor at the protest rally seemed especially uncharacteristic. TAKEAWAY: The correct answer choices not only have to yield complete sentences that are similar in meaning, but also have to fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0]

---
::