::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240106

question: " By the time distinctive and unambiguous symptoms began to (i)_______, the modified virus had already been communicated on an epidemic scale, rendering the previously optimistic plans to (ii)_______ infected individuals beside the point."

answers: [
  'fulminate',
  'equivocate',
  'manifest',
  'sequester',
  'assimilate',
  'exonerate'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The straight-ahead roadsign \"rendering\" means that the two parts of the sentence have a cause-and-effect relationship. There were \"distinctive and unambiguous symptoms,\" and the virus had become \"epidemic\" (or widespread), which meant that the plans to deal with the infected were now pointless; the plans must therefore have been to stop the spread. <strong>Predict the answer</strong> Symptoms that are \"distinctive and unambiguous\" can be observed, so for the first blank, predict a verb that means something like \"be observable.\" For the second blank, a good prediction would be that they had planned to \"quarantine\" the infected. <strong>Select the answer choices that most closely match your predictions</strong> <strong>(C)</strong> <i>manifest</i>, \"become visible\" or \"make known through display,\" completes the sentence logically and is the first correct answer. (A) <i>fulminate</i>, \"denounce strongly,\" does not fit the context and is incorrect. (B) <i>equivocate</i>, \"use purposefully ambiguous language,\" is incorrect because it does not make sense in the sentence either. <strong>(D) </strong><i>sequester</i>, or \"keep separate,\" makes perfect sense as a plan to prevent the spread of the virus and is the second correct answer. Even if you didn't know the formal definition, you may have remembered that juries are often <i>sequestered</i> to keep them separate from possible outside influences. This is sometimes a plot point in TV crime dramas. (E) <i>assimilate</i>, which means \"understand\" or \"absorb,\" does not make sense in this context, nor does (F) <i>exonerate</i>, \"clear from guilt,\" so these choices are incorrect. <strong>Check your answer</strong> By the time distinctive and unambiguous symptoms began to <i>manifest</i>, the modified virus had already been communicated on an epidemic scale, rendering the previously optimistic plans to <i>sequester</i> infected individuals beside the point. TAKEAWAY: If you can't define one of the choices, there might be a commonly used context for the word that can help you figure out its general meaning."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0]

---
::