::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240701

question: " Ryan is paralyzed by his own _______: he imagines having elaborate conversations with various people, but he fails to engage in discourse with them when opportunities to do so arise."

answers: [
  'diffidence',
  'sycophancy',
  'asphyxiation',
  'convalescence',
  'rectitude'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The colon is a straight-ahead roadsign. The part of the sentence after the colon explains further what is meant by saying \"Ryan is paralyzed.\" Specifically, something about Ryan prevents him from having the conversations he daydreams about. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> There is a range of qualities that could inhibit Ryan in this way. Predict something like \"inhibitions\" or \"constraints\" and look for an answer that matches this meaning in the context of not talking to people. <strong>Select the choice(s) that most closely match(es) your prediction</strong> <strong>(A)</strong><i>diffidence</i> means \"shyness\" and explains why Ryan can't follow through on the conversations he would like to have. (B) <i>sycophancy</i> means \"engaging in flattery,\" which Ryan can't do because he doesn't talk to people. (C) <i>asphyxiation</i> means \"suffocating,\" and a physical lack of breath is not Ryan's problem. (D) <i>convalescence</i> means \"recovery, especially after an illness\" and wouldn't make sense. (E) <i>rectitude</i> means \"having high moral standards,\" and nothing in the sentence indicates that it's Ryan's morals that keep him from talking to others. <strong>Check your answer</strong> Ryan is paralyzed by his own <i>diffidence</i>: he imagines having elaborate conversations with various people, but he fails to engage in discourse with them when opportunities to do so arise. TAKEAWAY: Unless otherwise indicated by keywords, a colon is a straight-ahead roadsign indicating that the following text will elaborate on what was said before."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 0]

---
::