::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240807

question: " Maria had successfully navigated complex literary tomes that would have intimidated some scholars, yet she had difficulty following the incoherent plot of this particular book, as, in her opinion, it was far too _______ to be readable."

answers: [
  'monotonous',
  'fallacious',
  'chaotic',
  'disjointed',
  'erroneous',
  'complicated'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> In this sentence, the word \"as\" functions as a straight-ahead roadsign that indicates that the clause that follows helps explain the clause before it. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> The clause before the word \"as\" states that Maria had difficulty following the \"incoherent\" plot. It can be predicted, therefore, that the correct answer will be similar in meaning to \"incoherent,\" at least as it applies to the plot of a book. Look for words like \"disconnected\" or \"disordered.\" <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> <strong>(C)</strong> <i>chaotic</i> and <strong>(D)</strong> <i>disjointed</i> both mean \"disconnected\" or \"disorderly\" and are the correct answers. (A) <i>monotonous</i> means \"tediously unvarying,\" which might make a plot boring, but not necessarily difficult to follow, so this choice is incorrect. (B) <i>fallacious</i> and (E) <i>erroneous</i> are synonyms, which might be tempting, but both these words mean \"mistaken,\" which makes no sense when used to describe a plot, so both choices are incorrect. (F) <i>complicated</i> means \"intricate\" or \"complex,\" but the first part of the sentence suggested that Maria had successfully navigated such writing in the past, so this choice is also incorrect. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> Maria had successfully navigated complex literary tomes that would have intimidated some scholars, yet she had difficulty following the incoherent plot of this particular book, as, in her opinion, it was far too <i>chaotic/disjointed</i> to be readable. TAKEAWAY: The correct answer choices not only have to yield complete sentences that are similar in meaning, but also have to fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0]

---
::