::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240526

question: " The astrophysicist's solution to the problem of long-range space flight was based on such _______ mathematical principles that even her astute colleagues required further explication before they could appreciate the brilliance of her proposal."

answers: [
  'elementary',
  'antediluvian',
  'inconsistent',
  'erroneous',
  'recondite'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The key phrase \"such...that\" is a straight ahead roadsign, which indicates that the second half of the sentence will help to explain the meaning of the missing word. According to the sentence, the astrophysicist's solution was exceptionally brilliant, so much so that even her colleagues couldn't grasp it without further explanation. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> If the math principles involved stumped other astute, or \"intelligent,\" astrophysicists, predict that these principles can be described as \"complex\" or \"difficult to understand.\" <strong>Select the choice that most closely matches your prediction</strong> <strong>(E)</strong><i>recondite</i>, meaning \"abstruse\" or \"not easily understood,\" fits this prediction and is the correct choice. The word itself, though, may be not easily understood; if you weren't familiar with it, check the other choices. If the math principles were (A) <i>elementary</i>, or \"basic and easy to understand,\" a group of astrophysicists would not require further explanation to grasp them. (B) <i>antediluvian</i> means \"outdated\" or \"primitive.\" While it is possible that very old mathematical principles would be unknown to some people, \"primitive\" does not reinforce the complexity of the principles conveyed by the sentence, so (B) is incorrect. If the astrophysicist had used (C) <i>inconsistent</i> mathematical principles, ones that disagree with one another, she would not have been able to come up with a brilliant solution. Likewise, the astrophysicist could not have come up with a workable, much less brilliant, solution if her mathematical principles were (D)<i> erroneous</i>, or \"wrong.\" <strong>Check your answer</strong> The astrophysicist's solution to the problem of long-range space flight was based on such <i>recondite </i>mathematical principles that even her astute colleagues required further explication before they could appreciate the brilliance of her proposal. TAKEAWAY: Once you've eliminated 4 answer choices, whatever's left must be right, even if you're not sure of its meaning."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::