::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240601

question: " Convinced that they were on the right track, the scientists decided to pursue their research, despite the fact that the link between music and plant growth seemed _______ at best."

answers: [
  'tenuous',
  'contentious',
  'notorious',
  'discerning',
  'nebulous',
  'inveterate'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The phrase \"despite the fact\" is a detour roadsign that indicates a contrast between the ideas that come before and after it. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> Since the scientists were \"convinced that they were on the right track\" and \"decided to pursue their research,\" the detour road sign implies that the link between music and plant growth must have been \"weak,\" \"uncertain,\" or \"unclear.\" <strong>Select the two choices that most closely match your prediction</strong> <strong>(A)</strong> <i>tenuous</i>, meaning \"flimsy\" or \"weak,\" and <strong>(E) </strong><i>nebulous</i>, meaning \"vague,\" both match the prediction, and are the correct choices. (B) <i>contentious</i> means \"likely to cause disagreement,\" which doesn't provide a suitable contrast with the scientists' decision to pursue their research. There is no reason to think scientists might normally abandon research just because there would be disagreement. (C ) <i>notorious</i> means \"infamous,\" and (D) <i>discerning</i> means \"perceptive.\" Neither of these choices fits the context of the sentence, so both are incorrect. (F) <i>inveterate</i> means \"firmly established by habit,\" which, if anything, contradicts the prediction, so this choice is also incorrect. <strong>Check your answers to see if the sentence retains the same meaning</strong> Convinced that they were on the right track, the scientists decided to pursue their research, despite the fact that the link between music and plant growth seemed <i>tenuous/nebulous</i> at best. TAKEAWAY: Don't just look at whether the words in the choices are positive or negative. The correct words have to fit the meaning of the sentence."

answerKey: [1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::