::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240622

question: " The Wankel rotary engine was an engineering marvel that (i)_______ automobile exhaust emissions, but because it was less fuel-efficient than the standard piston-cylinder engine, it was (ii)_______ in the early 1970s when (iii)_______ pollution gave way to panic over fuel shortages."

answers: [
  'depended totally on',
  'preceded the problems with',
  'substantially reduced',
  'necessitated',
  'conceived',
  'abandoned',
  'ignorance of',
  'espousal of',
  'preoccupation with'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> The Wankel engine had some effect on, or relation to, \"automobile exhaust emissions.\" Since it's described as an \"engineering marvel,\" it must be a positive effect. \"But\" at the beginning of the second clause is a detour roadsign, indicating a change in direction, and \"because\" signals cause-and-effect: since the Wankel was less fuel efficient than other types of engines, something happened to it in the 1970s, when \"panic over fuel shortages\" occurred. <strong>Predict the answers</strong> Since the sentence contrasts concerns over pollution and fuel efficiency, the less-fuel-efficient Wankel engine \"produced fewer\" emissions but was \"rejected\" or \"modified\" in the 1970s, when \"concerns about\" pollution were eclipsed by fuel shortages. <strong>Select the best matches from among the choices</strong> In the first blank, the best fit is <strong>(C) </strong><i>substantially reduced</i>. (A) <i>depended totally on</i> is illogical in context, and (B) <i>preceded the problems with</i> is the opposite of what's needed; the fact that the Wankel engine was \"an engineering marvel\" implies that it was developed in response to problems with air pollution. For the second blank, the best match is <strong>(F) </strong><i>abandoned</i>. (D) <i>necessitated,</i> meaning \"required,\" is the opposite of the prediction, since the Wankel engine was less fuel efficient than other engines. The chronology of the sentence indicates that the Wankel engine was (E) <i>conceived</i>, or \"invented,\" before the 1970s. For the third blank, <strong>(I) </strong><i>preoccupation with</i>, or \"obsession with,\" works best. (G) <i>ignorance of</i> is the opposite of the prediction, and (H) <i>espousal of</i>, or \"support for,\" doesn't make sense when applied to pollution. <strong>Confirm your answer by reading it into the sentence</strong> The Wankel rotary engine was an engineering marvel that <i>substantially reduced</i> automobile exhaust emissions, but because it was less fuel efficient than the standard piston-cylinder engine, it was <i>abandoned</i> in the early 1970s when <i>preoccupation with</i> pollution gave way to panic over fuel shortages. TAKEAWAY: Sometimes, the chronology of a sentence can help eliminate answer choices."

answerKey: [0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1]

---
::