::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240306

question: " In 1991, approximately what percent of all the high school graduates in state <math-variable>M</math-variable> graduated from high school <math-variable>C</math-variable>?"

answers: [
  '15%',
  '18%',
  '22%',
  '25%',
  '31%'
]

explanation: "Approach strategically Note the word \"approximately\" in the question stem and be prepared to estimate an answer rather than calculate it exactly. In the left-hand circle graph you find a percent of students who graduated from high school C , 25.4%. Be careful! This is the percent of all students. The question is asking for the number of C students as a percent of just high school graduates. (D), 25%, is not correct. At this point, you might realize that since just high school grads is a smaller number than all grads, the number of C students as a percent of high school grads will be greater than 25.4%. Only one answer choice works, so pick (E) . If you don't have this insight, then you can still solve pretty efficiently... In the pie graph, add up the percents of students who graduated high school. That's 83.2%. So, 83.2% of graduates graduated high school, and 25.4% of graduates graduated school C . To find the percent of high school graduates who graduated from high school C, divide 25.4 by 83.2 When you do that, you'll get roughly .305 or, calculated as a percent, 30.5%. Choice (E) is the closest, and that's the answer. TAKEAWAY: Look for time-saving approaches to estimate values without having to simplify an expression completely by hand or on your calculator. <strong>Analyze the graphs</strong> The line graph shows the numbers, in hundreds of thousands, of graduating high school and college students, and total such students, in state <i>M</i> for consecutive years from 1982 to 1990. The circle graph shows the percentages of high school and college students graduating by school in state <i>M </i>during the year 1991."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::