::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240411

question: " The perception that cut flowers are an acceptable way of expressing delight in beauty is sanctioned only insofar as they are not perceived as conspicuously _______."

answers: [
  'embellished',
  'elegant',
  'tasteful',
  'uncivil',
  'wasteful'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> This somewhat densely worded sentence says, essentially, that <i>Using cut flowers to show an appreciation for beauty is OK only if they are not seen as _______.</i> The phrase \"only insofar as ... not\" in the sentence, or \"only if ... not\" in the paraphrase is a detour roadsign. The blank will be a quality that would conflict with the idea that using cut flowers is acceptable. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> The context clues do not point to a specific quality of flowers, but predict a negative word for the blank-something that would make them unacceptable as a way of expressing delight in beauty. <strong>Select the choice that most closely matches your prediction</strong> <strong>(E)</strong><i>wasteful</i> is a negative word, and if cutting off flowers and setting them around the house were regarded as wasteful, that would certainly interfere with seeing their use as an appropriate way to express appreciation for beauty. This is the correct answer. (D), <i>uncivil</i>, is also negative, but it means \"rude and disruptive,\" and nothing about the use of cut flowers could be construed in this way. (A) does not work as something <i>embellished</i>, or \"ornamented,\" could be good or bad. Moreover, while flowers can be used to <i>embellish</i> the decor of a room, they themselves are not usually <i>embellished. </i>(B) <i>elegant </i>and (C) <i>tasteful </i>are out, since while these words could be used to describe flowers, they are positive traits. <strong>Check your answer</strong> The perception that cut flowers are an acceptable way of expressing delight in beauty is sanctioned only insofar as they are not perceived as conspicuously <i>wasteful</i>. TAKEAWAY: Sometimes keywords lead only to a general prediction. When this is the case, use that prediction to eliminate some choices and then filter the remaining choices by using the context of the sentence."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::