::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240617

question: " (i)_______ the students' (ii)_______ evaluations, the professor's work as an educator was without fault; he was hailed as a competent and inspiring instructor, a scrupulous evaluator, and a likable person."

answers: [
  'Spurning',
  'Judging by',
  'In lieu of',
  'approbatory',
  'tepid',
  'blandishing'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> For this question, it might be best to begin with the second blank; it modifies the students' evaluations, which the rest of the sentence describes. The professor was an exceptionally good educator, so the evaluations must show that. <strong>Predict the answer</strong> For the second blank, predict \"complimentary\" or any other term consistent with praise. The first blank will mean something like \"according to\" the evaluations. <strong>Select the answer choices that most closely match your predictions</strong> <strong>(D) </strong><i>approbatory</i>, meaning \"full of praise,\" is an excellent match and is the correct answer for the second blank. (E) <i>tepid</i> means \"lukewarm\" or \"mediocre,\" which definitely does not fit the high praise described in the sentence. (F) <i>blandishing</i> means \"influencing by flattery,\" and there's no indication that the students were trying to influence the teacher with these evaluations. <strong>(B) </strong><i>Judging by</i> fits perfectly in the first blank. (A) <i>Spurning</i> means \"rejecting,\" and (C) <i>In lieu of</i> means \"instead of\"; neither is a match for the prediction. <strong>Check your answer</strong> <i>Judging by</i> the students' <i>approbatory</i> evaluations, the professor's work as an educator was without fault; he was hailed as a competent yet inspiring instructor, a scrupulous evaluator, and a likable person. TAKEAWAY: There's no need to tackle the blanks in order; start with the one that's easier."

answerKey: [0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0]

---
::