::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20231016

question: "According to the popular conception of the scientific process, scientists assemble a complete array of relevant facts, evaluate them according to universal rules of logic, and reach conclusions that are _____."

answers: [
  'dictatorial',
  'invaluable',
  'heterodox',
  'contested',
  'categorical'
]

explanation: "<strong>Read the sentence, looking for clues</strong> This sentence presents a list of characteristics. The final missing word has to be consistent with all that's come before it. Note that the first item in the list involves a \"complete array\" of facts and that the second involves \"universal\" rules of logic. The missing word for the third item in the list should be an equally definite adjective to describe the scientists' conclusions. <strong>Predict an answer</strong> A good prediction would be something like \"complete,\" \"absolute\" or \"definite.\" <strong>Select the choice that most closely matches your prediction</strong> <strong>(E)</strong> <i>categorical</i>, meaning \"absolute, without exception,\" is a good match for the prediction and is the correct answer. (A) <i>dictatorial</i>, \"imposed by force,\" isn't justified by the sentence. (B) <i>invaluable</i> means \"very valuable, beyond price.\" Nothing in the sentence specifically suggests that the scientists' conclusions are valuable, just that they are absolute. (C) <i>heterodox</i> means \"unorthodox, contrary to generally accepted opinion.\" There is nothing to indicate that the conclusions necessarily go against generally accepted opinion. (D) <i>contested</i> means \"questioned, disputed\" and is the opposite of what is needed here. <strong>Check your answer</strong> According to the popular conception of the scientific process, scientists assemble a complete array of relevant facts, evaluate them according to universal rules of logic, and reach conclusions that are <i>categorical</i>. TAKEAWAY: Each item in a list should be logically consistent with the other items."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 0, 1]

---
::