::GRE
---

serialNumber: 20240719

question: " Each of 400 students at High School <i>X</i> is enrolled in exactly one math class. If 35 percent are taking trigonometry or calculus, how many students are taking geometry?"

answers: [
  '10',
  '25',
  '40',
  '100',
  '150'
]

explanation: "Approach strategically This question provides a total number of students and asks for the number taking geometry. According to the graph, n % of the total are taking geometry, so the task is to solve for n % and then multiply the total by that percent. The question also says that 35% of the students are taking trigonometry or calculus. Since according to the graph, n % are taking trigonometry and p % are taking calculus, n + p = 35. Since, again according to the graph, 20% are taking algebra, trig + calculus + algebra = 35 + 20 = 55. That leaves 100 - 55 = 45 for pre-algebra + geometry, so n + 2p = 45. Thus, you have two equations: n + p = 35 n + 2 p = 45 Don't formally use substitution or combination to solve this system of linear equations. Just note that the only difference between the left sides is that the second equation has one more p , and the difference on the right is 45 - 35 = 10. Thus, p = 10. Now substitute that value for p in n + p = 35, finding that n = 25. So 25% of the 400 students are taking geometry. That's one-fourth of 400, or 100 students. The correct answer is (D) . Check that you solved for the right value: (B) 25 is n , the percent of students taking geometry, not the number of students. TAKEAWAY: Values in a graph or table may be presented in terms of variables. Then use your algebra skills to translate from the chart in the same way you would translate a word problem. <strong>Analyze the graphs</strong> This pie chart shows the distribution of students across different math classes. Only one percentage is given: 20% of the students are taking algebra. The other proportions are given in terms of the variable <i>p</i> or <i>n</i>. The total number of students is not given, nor is any number of students in any of the classes given. The line graph presents the average GPA at the same school for each of five consecutive years."

answerKey: [0, 0, 0, 1, 0]

---
::